DATASHEET
OneTrust Vendorpedia Chasing Services
YOUR PERSONAL QUESTIONNAIRE COLLECTIONS AGENCY, AT NO EXTRA COST
A New Approach to Risk Assessments
Assessing third-party vendors is a time-consuming endeavor. Creating the assessments, identifying the right contact to complete it, following up, reviewing responses, asking for evidence and clarification; all of these manual and repetitive tasks eat away at productivity. Many companies have decided to outsource this process to dedicated teams that are optimized to streamline the completion of thirdparty risk assessments. This enables their teams to focus on more strategic projects.
OneTrust Vendorpedia Chasing Services
For all VendorpediaTM customers, OneTrust provides a value-added Third-Party Chasing Service that eliminates the back-and-forth communication challenges you experience when trying to get third parties to complete vendor risk assessments. At no extra cost, OneTrust will act as an agent on your behalf, working with your third parties and advising them throughout the entire assessment process. Vendors self-attest to the validity of their responses, with automated validation and remote or onsite audits are also available.

LESS WORK Offload time-consuming, assessment-related tasks to our agents to free up your resources

GREATER EFFICIENCY Enable our agents to streamline assessment
completion without any work in between

FASTER RESULTS Assess more third parties in less time as your dedicated OneTrust agent pursues your vendors

How It Works
Trained OneTrust Vendorpedia agents follow a detailed methodology when engaging third parties, eliminating the burdens you typically face during the assessment process. We make it simple and operate behind the scenes, enabling you to see the status and results, without getting bogged down in the details.

CHOOSE VENDOR

SELECT STANDARD

ENLIST AGENT

RECEIVE RESULTS

OneTrust Vendorpedia Chasing Services
YOUR PERSONAL QUESTIONNAIRE COLLECTIONS AGENCY, AT NO EXTRA COST
Offload Vendor Questionnaires
When assessing vendors, half the battle is getting a response. With Vendorpedia Chasing Services, we handle all assessment-related work, including identifying correct contacts, following up, and answering any of your vendors' questions.
Save Money & Reallocate Resources
Your time is money. And assessing third parties can be painstakingly slow. Vendorpedia Chasing Services are included with your license, and the service eliminates repetitive tasks, giving your team the bandwidth to work on high-value projects.
Get Vendor Responses Faster
When you use Vendorpedia Chasing Services, you enlist a team of expert agents to work directly with your vendors. Our team has developed a proprietary and systematic approach to complete vendor assessments in a timely manner.
Use Our Agents at Any Time
Your team shouldn't have to work around the clock, but that doesn't mean productivity needs to come to a halt. OneTrust Vendorpedia agents are multilingual, located around the world, and work 24/7 to deliver results.
Key Benefits
 24/7 Agent Availability: The OneTrust agent team is global and always online, enabling an always-open communication channel  Experienced Experts: OneTrust agents are measured by how efficiently they complete chasing requests  Any Standard(s): Support any standard or framework, giving you the ability to build an assessment that works for you  No Extra Cost: Chasing Services come with a Vendorpedia license and are available to use for any and all of your vendors  Less Manual Work: Make a Chasing Services request and receive completed assessments when they'redone; it's that easy
START A FREE TRIAL OR REQUEST A DEMO AT VENDORPEDIA.COM
ATLANTA | LONDON | BANGALORE | SAN FRANCISCO MELBOURNE | NEW YORK | MUNICH | HONG KONG
OneTrust VendorpediaTM is the largest and most widely used technology platform to operationalize third party risk, security, and privacy management. More than
3,000 customers use OneTrust, which offers the most depth and breadth of any third-party risk, security, and privacy solution. To learn more, visit vendorpedia.com.
Copyright  2019 OneTrust LLC. All rights reserved. Proprietary & Confidential.

