"Looking Ma, No Malware"
Unsupervised Learning Methods to Understand Certain DDoS Attacks
Speaker: Renée Burton
FloCon 2020
1 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Classifying Malicious Actors: classic problem
In intelligence analysis, we are frequently motivated to understand the actors and malware behind malicious behaviors. This can lead to better detection and threat analysis. We look to:  Understand the landscape of the attacks  Look for ways to identify similar malware  Identify similarities across attacks and malware  Detect or assign a label to malware  Reverse engineer  Assign attribution
2 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Generally harder

Classifying Malicious Actors: Data Science
 Understand the landscape of the attacks
 Statistical analysis of metadata around attacks
 Look for ways to identify similar malware
 Exploratory data analysis and feature engineering
 Identify similarities across attacks and malware
 Clustering
 Detect or assign a label to malware
 Classification (binary and multi-class)
 Reverse Engineer  Creating toolboxes to use against different problem sets
3 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Sharing the Toolbox
 Frequently we don't have any labeled data (no malware) ....  But we might have a lot of observations...  Unsupervised learning techniques can help us understand
 Actors  Actor Techniques, Tactics, and Procedures
This talk shares some of our tools in the context of
DNS-Based DDoS Attacks
4 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Random Subdomain* DDoS Attacks
 Use "random" subdomains to overload authoritative name servers
 Resource exhaustion attack
 Attacks against authoritative name servers; domain doesn't matter really

Goal: Identify and label attacks We postulate that there are N uniquely identifiable software systems being used in these attacks.
* also referred to as Slow Drip or Water Torture DDos attacks 5 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Queries look like: random_prefix.attack_domain
or random_prefix.fixed_label.attack_domain

Sample Attack Queries from Various Domains
Queries USED TO look like: random_prefix.attack_domain
or random_prefix.fixed_label.attack_domain
· Prefix isn't random; can contain dictionary words.
· Fixed label is no longer fixed. Can vary.
6 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

The problem
 take ~800M records like the ones on previous slide  put them into buckets of attacks generated the same way  where an attack is (date, domain)
The solution
 use machine learning: "unsupervised learning" technique can cluster, or group, attacks that have similar "features"
7 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Slow Drip Feature Engineering
 Problem is really hard -- we only have small observables, no malware  Approaches we can take include:
 Landscape statistics, e.g., popularity and co-occurrence of attacked domains, timing, etc.
 Qname statistics, e.g., how long, how diverse, number of labels, etc.  Similarity statistics, e.g, overlaps in attacks and prefixes  Time series analysis  .....
"good" clustering requires many features.
8 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Character Distributions as a Feature
One natural feature to analyze is the characters of the random prefix.  Common approaches measure digit ratios, entropy, etc.  Here we consider unigram character distributions instead
 Unigram means a single character; distribution means normalized counts  We count characters over all unique prefixes in the attack  We consider:
 first character  all prefix characters
9 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Comparing Three Attacks

Different Days -- Different Domains

10 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Same day -- different domains

Distance for Character Distributions
 Compute a distance measure between two distributions
 There are several ways to use this  We use Jensen-Shannon Distance
 Calculate the distribution for every attack  Calculate the pairwise distance for each attack
Small distance
11 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Attack Clusters From Unigram Distributions
These clusters cross many dates. Notice that we've picked up domains that are similar to each other solely by the single character distribution. This further supports that the attacks are related to each other.
12 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

What's the goal?
We can't compute pairwise distances for every attack over time, so what's the point?
We hope to find a small number of reference distributions which we can use a measuring sticks for attacks.  This means we really don't care about clustering everything --
different than `typical' clustering goals Intuitively, this is creating a set of items to compare an unseen attack against, e.g., "oh, yeah, that attack is like airbnb on 7/31/18 attack".
13 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Reference Attacks
 Using data from June - August 2018, found 8 reference attacks
 Used DBSCAN clustering and took the center attack
 We can now compare new attacks to these as one feature  Found these distributions to still be consistent in 2019
Combine this character feature with others
14 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Feature: Query Type

Hypothesize that these attacks were generated by different malware.

15 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Feature: DNS Enumeration Dictionary

 A substantial number of the attacks use a dictionary for generating their random subdomain strings.

22% of attacks have < 5% overlap with dictionary

11% of attacks have >80% overlap with dictionary

16 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Hypothesize that these attacks were generated by different malware.

Clustering the Attacks
· 20 Features in Total
­ Percentage of qtypes ­ Dictionary overlap ­ Character distributions ­ Time series ­ Percentage of unique labels
in attack ­ Mean prefix lengths ­ etc.
· Used HDB-SCAN to cluster attacks in 20 dimensions
· Use UMAP to project 20-dimensional space into 2-d plane ­ -1 indicates an outlier
17 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

The Interesting Thing...
 Activity from 2014-2018 very high volume, one actor
 Last seen May 2018  Mostly disrupted the middle Internet, not the targets
 Current activity is lower volume, harder to detect
 Unclear what the motivations are  Totally different TTP than before  Not effective DDoS  Change in 2019
 Weird mix of `target' domains
18 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

Want more details?
Paper to be published in ACM Digital Threat: Research and Practice Preprint available on Arxiv.org (outdated)
Data sample provided by Farsight Security.  Contains a sample of queries from multiple attacks 2018 & 2019  For personal research use; not to be disseminated or published
without consent of Farsight Security  bit.ly/flocon20
19 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

20 | © Infoblox Inc. All rights reserved.

