THE CISO'S 
 GUIDE TO 
 SOAR

WHITEPAPER

#1: PHISHING
Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) provides significant value at every level of the Horogpaenfizualltyio, nth, efrroemwtihllecjounmioer anyaelyasrtswwhheon upsheisithtiongauistonmoatteatatlehret ttroiapgeo,fto the SOC managers who use it to egveenreyralitset doeftsaeilceudrmityeturisces acnadsems,abnaugte20th2e2ir itsenamot'stpheartfoyremaar.nEceve. Hnoawsever, there is one person that is ultimately creybspeornsesicbuleritfoyrttohoelsseacnudrittyhoef heaacchkeorrsgtahneizyatpioron.teTchteaygmaiignhstt hbaovtehobneecoofma efew different titles, but for simplicity's msaokree, wsoep'llhciastllicthaetemdt,hteheChmieofsItnfeofrfmecattiivoen wSeacyutriotybOreffaiccehr a(CnISoOrg).a
nization iIsnsStAillNoSf'te2n02t1hrAouutgomh astoiocniaal nedngIninteegeraritniogn. S
 urvey, 85.3% of respondents said they planned to automate key security and incident response processes in the next 12 months. CISOs are the ones leading these automation WstrhaitlegaieSs,OaAndR tthoeoyl nceaend'ttshteorpigahnt teomolps ltooyheeelpfrtohmemcleicxekicnugteo. SnOaAR is the only tool that can support the mauatloicmioautisonlinrekq, uitirceamneanutstomf CaItSeOasnindheigxphleydsiotephtihsteicpatreodceosrsgaonfizdaetitoencst,inwgh,ile bringing many additional benefits.
 analyzing, and eliminating phishing campaigns that target your oTrhgeareniazraetifoonu.r broad categories in which SOAR can support CISOs and other senior security executives:
 1. Optimization of Resources 2. Processes and Measurement 3. Reporting to the Board 4. Creating Business Value

1. Optimization of Resources

SOAR helps CISOs manage budget constraints, personnel shortages, and vendor relationships with technology that enhances the return on existing investments.


SHORTAGE OF TIER 1 ANALYSTS

The cybersecurity skills gap has created a shortage of hundreds of thousands of analysts. This means CISOs have to minimize employee turnover and maximize the output of each member of their security team. SOAR offsets a lack of analysts by automating the vast majority of basic tasks, which has a cascading effect across the SOC: 

 Fewer analysts are needed because so much busywork has been eliminated;
 the morale of existing analysts is likely to improve because they no longer have to perform mindless, repetitive tasks;
 the budget and person-hours spent on Tier 1 tasks can be applied to other areas to better improve your security posture.
SHORTAGE OF HIGHLY SKILLED PERSONNEL

The skills gap isn't just felt at the junior level. As roles get more senior, it becomes even harder find qualified people to fill those positions. Fortunately, SOAR makes it possible to get advanced contributions out of junior employees, while helping your entire team stay focused on the most important tasks.

SOAR playbooks can take the knowledge of your most experienced team members and put it into foolproof workflows that can be guided successfully by anyone on the team. Intelligent response workflows handle the data collection, risk scoring, and response orchestration, so that junior analysts aren't overwhelmed, and senior analysts aren't bogged down by manual tasks.

Automated alert enrichment and TTP correlation also help your team to immediately identify high-risk threats, so they always know where to focus their time and attention.


D3 XGEN SOAR 

CUSTOMER STORY

SOAR can help you not only optimize your internal resources, but your outsourced resources as well. A global FinTech company implemented D3 to integrate their security technology and improve their efficiency. However, D3 also had the effect of revolutionizing how the FinTech company worked with the MSSP they had hired to handle Tier 1 alerts.

With D3, the FinTech company was able to improve response times 10x and auto-close 24% of alerts. This meant fewer alerts were sent to the MSSP (who was charging per alert). Before D3, the MSSP would have to consult with the SOC team on any serious alert, but by using D3 they had access to the contextual data and response playbooks they needed to act independently. In just the first few months, the MSSP was already responding 3-4x faster than before.

With D3 XGEN SOAR in place, the CISO was able to streamline and improve their security operations and execute on their strategy of reducing expenditure on Tier 1 tasks, both internal and externally managed.


LEGACY TOOLS AND DATA SILOS

It is common for a SOC to have more than a dozen security tools. Security teams spend a ton of time switching between screens and manually aggregating data from separate silos, but it is risky and expensive to rip-and-replace a legacy stack with something more efficient. SOAR can help to connect your entire stack, regardless of the vendor or product type. Instead of replacing the stack, using SOAR as the operations hub is a cost-effective way to optimize the power of your existing tools. 


2. Processes and Measurement 

 SOAR helps CISOs ensure that consistent processes are used across the organization and gives them the metrics they need to maintain visibility at all levels of security operations.


ENABLING CONSISTENT AND EFFECTIVE PROCESSES

Because SOAR consolidates security events onto a single tool, those events can be enriched and correlated comprehensively with data from across the environment. That gives security teams the information they need to take the right action or trigger the right playbook.

With SOAR, security teams can implement repeatable processes for incidents that are based on proven, defensible, best practices. Playbooks greatly reduce the risk of human error and ensure that every threat is analyzed and responded to.

MEASURING AND DOCUMENTING SOC ACTIVITY

Because SOAR aggregates data from all other security tools, it is the ideal source for accurate documentation. SOAR enables the creation of valuable metrics and records, including KPIs, incident timelines, MITRE ATT&CK mapping, decisions made, audit trails, and evidence tracking.


D3 XGEN SOAR 

CUSTOMER STORY

In highly regulated industries like finance, security documentation is especially important. A major international bank chose D3 to become the centerpiece of their overhauled SOC, and quickly expanded the deployment to support six other departments, including Compliance, Privacy, and Computer Forensics. 

By integrating 15 tools and supporting 500 users, D3 enabled greater oversight of operations, a single source for security and compliance data, and a common language for collaboration between teams. This enabled the CISO to achieve their goal of creating a reliable, company-wide system for documentation, tracking, and reporting.


3. Reporting to the Board

SOAR can help CISOs effectively communicate to their board of directors regarding SOC metrics, return on security investments, and post-mortems of major incidents.


METRICS AND ROI

SOAR provides CISOs an overhead view of their security operations, with the ability to drill down for details. CISOs can easily configure and retrieve customized metrics such as the number of intrusion attempts, MTTD, MTTR, MTTC, and response times for key incident types.

When demonstrating ROI to the board, SOAR metrics can be used to quantify the impact of a new tool over time, show trends in the occurrence of specific TTPs, or even measure the performance of specific analysts.

INCIDENT POST-MORTEMS
After a major incident like a data breach, the board will expect a detailed account of what happened. CISOs can use SOAR data 
 to tell the full story of a cyberattack. This includes creating a full timeline of the incident, filling in the relevant IOC and TTP data, and providing a full audit of actions taken by the security team. SOAR incident data can show your board what went right, what went wrong, and what needs to be improved.


ASK THE RIGHT QUESTIONS

Use SOAR data to ask the right questions (so you're ready when the board asks them):

 What are our biggest risks as an organization?
 What are our trends in MTTR and MTTD?
 What is the ROI on our recent security investments?
 Have recent investments or changes led to decreases in important metrics like late-stage attacks or major incidents?

4. Creating Business Value

We've already covered how CISOs can create business value by using SOAR to identify and quantify cybersecurity risk through centralized collection of security data, as well as measure the performance of your team and security controls against those threats. SOAR can also help CISOs create business value in other important ways.

INTEGRATION OF TOOLSETS

During a merger or acquisition, integrating two disparate toolsets can be a major headache. A SOAR platform, with its open integrations, can make it easier to connect disparate tools, whether they are going to be managed centrally or distributed.

Working with MSSPs and MDRs can also create integration problems that decrease the value a company gets out of expensive managed services. SOAR can act as the bridge between a SOC's tools and an MSSP or MDR, enabling collaboration without either team having to replace their existing stack.


D3 Security has been at the forefront of security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) since before the term was even invented. In this time, we've helped the largest companies in the world and early adopters from virtually every industry transform their security operations, incident
response, and threat hunting.

This depth of experience has allowed to D3 to build the most comprehensive and scalable SOAR platform on the planet. It has also given our team members unmatched SOAR-specific expertise, which allows us to provide you--the person evaluating or buying SOAR--the best help possible.

We would love to discuss your automation strategy and show you how our product can help you achieve your goals.
WANT TO LEARN MORE ABOUT D3?
JOIN THE NEXT XGEN SOAR DEMO

Read how a FinTech 
 client increased their 
 response speed 10X

DOWNLOAD
Get the conversation started:
Email info@d3security.com
 Follow @D3Security on Twitter


Read our 
 NextGen SOAR
Product Guide DOWNLOAD
Connect with D3 Security on LinkedIn Visit us online at D3Security.com


