2021 Year in Review
An interactive report of annual research findings
January 2022

Overview
What follows are highlights from four primary research studies Security Compass commissioned in 2021 on topics in Cybersecurity, covering DevSecOps, Cloud Adoption, Threat Modeling, and the US DoD. The research was conducted independently by Golfdale Consulting, Inc.
Table of Contents
Balancing security and speed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Overcoming time to market issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Accelerated cloud development and risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Proactive security and compliance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Threat modeling = greatest opportunity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Increased threats to government . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
In addition to findings from our research, we gained insights from senior cybersecurity leaders at our Equilibrium Conference held in June of 2021.
56:01
Embracing Security in Software
2

Balancing Security and Speed

In 2021, there was a rapid acceleration of Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) cloud-based software development. Cloud development helped to address increased demand for faster, more scalable creation and deployment of software applications. However, accelerated software development came with an increasing number of hostile attacks.
Is it possible to improve time to market on new software builds while improving security from the start?

This becomes possible through a Balanced Development Automation (BDA) approach. Many companies are implementing DevSecOps, an approach that literally puts security as a center-point integrated into software development and operations /deployment. With this approach, rapid development can be balanced with security in creating new software products.
Not surprisingly, the majority of large enterprises developing software in the US and the UK are taking this approach.

With an unprecedented number of cybersecurity challenges occurring this past year, the necessity of DevSecOps as a way to address scalable risk management became increasingly clear. Accelerating digital transformation requires security at the center of all development.
Rohit Sethi, CEO Security Compass

2021 State of DevSecOps Implementation

US

UK

No Plans to 1%

Planning to 5%

Minority of apps
Majority of apps

16%

77%

3

Overcoming Time to Market Issues

Even with these advances, technology

While speed to market is a great concern, it is

executives and practitioners, along with their clear that for the majority, balance is achieved

counterparts in risk and compliance, show a

by first ensuring there is improvement in

great deal of concern over time to market issues. security, quality and resilience.

Time to Market Issues OvOevraelrlall

Drivers of DevSecOps OvOevraelrlall

80%
% agree / strongly agree security and compliance issues slow down their time to market
Surveying senior execs and practitioners quantified what we hear from many in the industry -- 75% believe that manual processes for security and compliance hamper the ability to get new products to market.

Improve security, quality
and/or...
Bring technology to market faster
Reduce organizational
silos
Reduce cost

30% 10% 6%

54%

Having Manual Security and/or Compliance Processes Slows Code Releases
A moderate amount 38%

Heading into 2022, executives in companies producing software are in near unanimous agreement, automation of proactive security and compliance is of great importance.

Alot 37%

A little 18% None 7%

96% Priority of Automating Proactive Security and Compliance

96%

% high/medium priority

4

Accelerated Cloud Development and Risk

Cloud usage among enterprises continues its upward trends, outpacing fast-growth expectations of only just a few years ago. In 2018, a well-researched forecast was that by 2021, 35% of all enterprise workloads would be in public cloud applications; today, it globally stands at 50%, with expectations of an additional 7 percentage point gain in the next year. Security concerns have been a major impetus for this growth, with increasing needs for organizations to adjust their security posture to both keep attackers out (cybersecurity) and to minimize the damage caused once they are in (cyber resilience).
Our research among large enterprises that build cloud based applications confirmed these trends.

Driving this adoption has been the global push to enable remote work environments, especially among the largest ($5B+) companies. What Drives Cloud Adoption in Apps Developed
OvOevraelrlall

Top Rank

2nd Rank

3rd Rank

Enabling a
Remote 46%
Workforce

24% 29%

Bringing
Technology to 35%
Market Faster

33% 32%

Increasing Agility

32%

37%

31%

Priority of Cloud Adoption 2021
OvOevraelrlall

Top priority

It is one of the things we are
working on

17%

We will not be working on it.

0%

83%

Physician, heal thyself. Almost 100% of executives and practitioners alike believe automated security and compliance processes are core to the solution.

Interest in Automation
"I would be interested in a solution that automates proactive security & compliance processes."
70%

27%

Overall

3%

Strongly agree

Agree

Neither agree nor disagree

Note that no one "disagreed" nor "strongly disagreed"!

5

Proactive Security and Compliance
Among enterprises building cloud-based applications, proactive security and compliance processes are being undertaken. Most often, this approach is undertaken for risk assessments; least often for threat modeling. What is clear, the more apps that are developed in the Cloud, the greater the need for proactive security and compliance processes.
Proactive Security and/or Compliance Processes Undertaken Broken Out By % of Apps Developed in the Cloud
OvOevraelrlall

72% 66%

57%

57%

48%

39%

Risk

Secure coding Compliance by Privacy by

assessments guidelines

design

design

Developer training

Threat modeling

6

Threat Modeling = Greatest Opportunity

Despite less than half of enterprises undertaking threat modeling, we believe it is a core proactive cybersecurity practice that ensures applications can withstand future attacks. Among medium and large sized enterprises that do threat modeling, just over half in the US do so every release, a percentage that grows to three quarters in the UK.
How Often Threat Modeling is Performed
OvOevrearllall
We typically do threat modeling every release We typically do threat modeling only once We typically do threat modeling every year
From the onset of the software development lifecycle, it is critically important to anticipate where attacks are likely to come from and to implement controls to mitigate risk from these threats.

While more extensive threat modeling coverage is desired, internal challenges in doing so are numerous.
Internal Threat Modeling Challenges

Difficulty automating the integration with other technologies 56%

Too time consuming 41%

Too manual 37%

Lack of consistency 43%

Lack of skilled resources 20%

Not high enough of a priority 18%

Across industries involved in software application development, the majority also do not start soon enough, during the requirements gathering and design stages.

When Threat Modeling is Typically Performed in SDLC
OvOevrearllall

Requirements gathering
Design

6% 19%

Development

51%

Testing

16%

Deployment 6%

Maintenance 2%

7

Increased threats to Government

Increasingly, governments are seeing the need to begin security sooner in the software development process. Termed "shift left", this approach sits as one of the top priorities of US government agencies, particularly at the Federal level and especially among agencies that develop their own custom software.
Priority of "Shifting Security Left" (Introducing Security Early in the SDLC)
OvOevrearllall

The acceleration of cyber attacks in 2021, including governments and public utilities, has led to a need for an increased complexity of government defense. Indeed, in May of 2021 the US President signed an Executive Order on Improving the Nation's Cybersecurity.
Challenges remain, however, in particular with obtaining adequate budgets to fully implement proactive security.
Challenges Implementing DevSecOps

3%
Not a priority 1%

Very low priority

10% 6%

One of our top 10 priorities

33% 31%

One of our top 3 priorities

28% 27%

Top priority

26% 34%

Overall Agency Develops Custom Software

Budget constraints
Managing legal, regulatory & compliance controls
Inadequate skill-sets (lack
of training)
Challenges with ATO
process/speed
Lack of organizational
agility
Securing DevSecOps Infrastructure
& Pipeline

57% 35% 34% 31% 31% 27%

8

2021 was a year of enormous challenges in cybersecurity. While the onslaught of threats is likely to continue unabated into 2022, what will mark the year ahead as different and better will be proactive, automated solutions that scale to meet these challenges.
Rohit Sethi, CEO, Security Compass
9

