Product Information
Powerful Enterprise VPN Solution and single-user Entry Clients

"BSI recommends setting up a Virtual Private Network (VPN) as the first of five simple IT security measures in the home office." IT security in the home office in 2020, Federal Office for Information Security (BSI)

Centrally Managed Enterprise VPN

Powerful and flexible remote access infrastructure has become an important factor in ensuring business continuity, not just during the pandemic. Companies that are able to adapt to unexpected situations, via scalable infrastructure and ensuring continual secure communications, can stay on track when it counts.
From single-user licenses to connecting thousands of mobile users, NCP products offer the highest standards of IT security, proudly developed in Nuremberg, Germany. Read on to discover the potential that a centrally managed enterprise VPN can unlock in your organization.
 NCP Secure Entry Clients are designedfor standalone use or smaller installations.  NCP Secure Enterprise VPN is suited for larger installations and site-to-site networking
(central management, VPN gateway, and enterprise VPN clients)
NCP products also provide secure communication for processing sensitive data in classified scenarios, such as VS-NfD/RESTREINT UE/EU RESTRICTED and NATO RESTRICTED, as well as secure communication for IIoT applications like remote maintenance.
NCP VPN solutions are designed to integrate seamlessly with your Zero Trust strategy and IT security systems.

The NCP VPN solution is modular and consists of three components:
 Centrally managed infrastructure for managing and monitoring  Secure gateway (virtual appliance optional)  Clients for Windows, macOS, Linux, Android and iOS

Mobile User

Firewall Internet Connector

Internet

VPN Gateway

Central Management

Company Network

VPN Client
NCP Secure Enterprise Clients

High Availability Server
NCP Secure Enterprise VPN Server (SES/vSES)

NCP Secure Enterprise Management (SEM)

Enterprise and Entry Product Solutions | 3

NCP Secure Enterprise Management

With NCP Secure Enterprise Management (SEM), you can manage your remote access network from a central location. This means that administrators no longer have to balance a large number of standalone solutions and

consoles. SEM serves as a single point of administration, where IT administrators can make policy changes without interrupting business continuity.

PKI Integration
Directory Service (Active Directory/LDAP)

Single Point of Administration
Central Management

Quality of Service (QoS)
Endpoint Policy

Certification Authority (CA)

NCP Deployment

VPN Gateway
NAC

REST API

RADIUS Server
MFA

Benefits of NCP Secure Enterprise Management for VPN
Automated mass rollout  Central client/server configuration,
certificate and license management Automated software updates Integration into existing identity management
systems (LDAP, Active Directory, etc.) Supports multitenancy and service provider
infrastructure  Comprehensive monitoring and
reporting Integrated RADIUS server Advanced authentication

The Secure Enterprise Management system includes powerful features for configuring and managing VPN clients and servers from a single point of administration.

IPsec VPN Gateway Software

The NCP Secure Enterprise VPN Server (SES) has a modular software architecture and maximum scalability for organizations looking to adapt their remote access network and site-to-site networking based on demand.

With SES, organizations can build a powerful VPN infrastructure that grows with business demands and can flexibly adapt to changing requirements when it counts. For example, this means even from starting out with some 500 users to supporting many thousands of users later on.

Benefits of the NCP Secure Enterprise VPN Server

Software-based with multitenancy support Manage more than 10,000 concurrent
sessions per system Integrated IP routing and firewall features Universal software components for remote access,
site-to-site networking and IIoT Integrated two-factor authentication + TOTP

High availability through fail-safe mode and load balancing Policy changes "on the fly" NCP VPN Path Finder Technology (Fallback IPsec/HTTPS) Network Access Control Endpoint security (with SEM) Certificate-based authentication (also for iOS devices)

The modular software architecture and maximum scalability of SES/vSES allow organizations to expand remote access and site-to-site networking on demand.
The system performance can be expanded to support more than 10,000 users and high availability systems can support a potentially unlimited number of users.

Virtual VPN Appliance
The NCP Virtual Secure Enterprise VPN Server (vSES) comprises the VPN server, high-availability services and a hardened operating system. Installing the appliance only requires a virtual environment. The hardened operating system is optimized for maximum security.
Maximum scalability and a comprehensive update concept are valuable features for effective VPN management. Provided in a complete package, a VPN appliance is not only easier to manage but also cost-efficient by saving the need for developing in-house expertise.

Benefits of the vSES Appliance
Hardened and comprehensive Linux/Debian based solution
Compatible with common virtual environments Maximum scalability thanks to multiprocessor/
multi-core support VPN Path Finder Technology (Fallback IPsec/HTTPS)

Enterprise and Entry Product Solutions | 5

IPsec VPN Client Suite

The NCP Secure Enterprise Clients allow users to easily and securely connect to your network or resources, supporting all major operating systems and devices. Thanks to the SEM, IT administrators can configure and manage individual users or groups from a central point of administration, even in systems with several hundred or thousands of users.
IT administration effort is reduced significantly with the ability to manage installations and update remote users (in most cases without physical access to the devices).

NCP Enterprise Clients support the following operating systems:
Windows 11 and 10 macOS 12 Monterey and macOS 11 Big Sur iOS Android Linux

From the client interface, users can easily monitor data throughput and Wi-Fi signal strength.

A VPN client with an integrated firewall is a smart solution to many security threats.

When accessing company resources from external locations, there are many different scenarios and authentication layers: home office and other networks at customer/partner sites, public hotspots and network access from abroad, etc. NCP VPN clients master the challenges of remote access in a straightforward and secure way.
Thanks to intuitive features, the VPN client maintains secure communication seamlessly, without the user having to intervene or potentially misconfiguring the software.

 F riendly Net Detection ­ determines whether an end device is connected to a public network or a trusted network. The dynamic personal client firewall rules are adapted to the network's trust level and the VPN tunnel is established or disconnected automatically.
 H otspot Logon ­ protects users when logging on to a hotspot provider via an unsecured Wi-Fi network.
 H ome Zone function ­ the NCP client is automatically configured to allow users to access local network devices, such as a printer, but internet traffic is forwarded securely through the VPN tunnel.

IPsec VPN clients for single-user devices running Windows, macOS, or Android

NCP Secure Entry Clients are designed for standalone use or smaller installations (such as less than 100 remote employees). They enable secure communication with the company network and are available for Windows, macOS and Android.
The intuitive user interface shows the connection and security status before and during the connection. All clients are compatible with common VPN gateways (e.g. Cisco, Juniper Networks, Palo Alto, etc.) and can be easily integrated into existing network structures.

Although the entry level solution is designed for smaller installations, it has an advanced range of features. Compared to classical VPN software, NCP Secure Entry Clients benefit users with additional, practical features:
 S ecure Hotspot Logon with Wi-Fi Manager  H ome Zone  B iometric Authentication support  Q uality of Service  and many more!

NCP Secure Entry Clients are designed for small deployments with up to 100 workstations.
NCP Secure Entry Client is unparalleled in its ease-of-use. The intuitive user interface shows the user the connection and security status before and during the connection.

Enterprise and Entry Product Solutions | 7

ZE Y

Features of NCP VPN Software:

Path Finder Technology VPN in IPsec hostile environments, e.g. hotspots or countries where internet access is restricted
Always On Work as though you were in the office ­ anytime and anywhere
Seamless Roaming and Internet Connector Automatic media detection/switching between LAN/Wi-Fi/mobile network without user interaction
Endpoint Policy Check Validates the security status of the end device, e.g. virus scanner, OS version, domain affiliation, etc.
Quality of Service Prioritization of bandwidth for time-critical applications, e.g. video conferencing or Skype/Microsoft Teams
Dynamic Personal Client Firewall Integrated dynamic firewall with additional features (Friendly Net Detection, Hotspot Logon, Home Zone)
Friendly Net Detection Automatic adaption of firewall rules in trusted networks

RO TRUST SECURIT

Hotspot Logon Secure use of public hotspots (VPN access despite captive portal)
Home Zone Use local network devices, such as printers, in home office while communicating with the company network exclusively via VPN tunnel.
Multitenancy Manage multiple customers or business divisions centrally but independently of one another.
Windows Pre-logon Login to the local Windows system after establishing a VPN tunnel and authenticating the user in the Windows domain via the Active Directory

www.mey-agentur.de

Do you have any questions or would you like to make an appointment for a product demonstration? Please connect with us.

The Americas
NCP engineering, Inc.
19321 US Highway N, Suite 401 Clearwater, FL 33764 USA
+1 650 316-6273
sales@ncp-e.com www.ncp-e.com

Europe, Asia and Pacific
NCP engineering GmbH
Dombuehler Str. 2 90449 Nuremberg Germany
+49 911 9968-333
sales@ncp-e.com www.ncp-e.com

We look forward to discussing your VPN needs with you.

