Security Policy Management for Complex Enterprise Environments
FireMon's mission is to improve security operations that will in turn lead to better security outcomes. FireMon delivers industry-leading security policy management, cloud security operations, and cybersecurity asset management solutions to over 1,700 enterprises in nearly 70 countries.
Our security policy management platform is the only real-time solution that reduces firewall and cloud security policyrelated risks, manages policy changes, and enforces compliance. FireMon's DisruptOps offering is the only distributed cloud security operations offering that detects and responds to issues in the fast-paced public cloud environments such as AWS and Azure. Our cloud-based Lumeta cybersecurity asset management solution can scan an entire enterprise infrastructure, from on-premises networks to the cloud, to identify everything in the environment and provide valuable insights into how it's all connected together. Learn more at FireMon.com.
Solutions From FireMon
SECURITY POLICY MANAGEMENT
FireMon's delivers consolidated security policy management for firewalls and cloud security groups to meet compliance standards, automate policy changes, and minimize risk. Since creating the first-ever policy management solution in 2001, FireMon has grown to become the industry's only real-time security policy management solution delivering complete visibility and control across an organization's entire IT landscape.

IMPROVE SECURITY OPERATIONS. IMPROVE SECURITY OUTCOMES.

CLOUD SECURITY OPERATIONS
FireMon's centralized rule repository captures and standardizes policies across all vendors to simplify rule management and changes. Rules can be created, tested, and deployed directly to any or all devices on the network using built-in workflows or integration with ITSM providers such as ServiceNow and Remedy. Real-time change detection alerts administrators when a policy is created, updated or removed so nothing slips between the cracks.

CYBERSECURITY ASSET MANAGEMENT
F ireMon's unified risk dashboard gives a full view of risk across the entire environment using the proprietary Security Concern Index. Risk analysis and modeling provides insight into network topography, along with attack scenarios and mitigation recommendations. Integration with leading vulnerability scanners provides deep insight into policy-related risk. Consolidated assessments allow organizations to get up and running quickly with fullcustomizable risk and compliance reports.

© 2022 FireMon, LLC. All rights reserved. All other product and company names mentioned are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.

Products from FireMon
SECURITY MANAGER
FireMon Security Manager is a comprehensive network security policy management platform that helps organizations quickly adapt to change, manage risk, and achieve continuous compliance. By standardizing and consolidating firewall, cloud security group, and other network policy device rulesets into a single management console, Security Manager gives network teams visibility and control over even the most complex hybrid networks with ease. Designed with enterprise needs in mind, Security Manager is highly-scalable and highly customizable with the industry's only API-first approach that exposes every control for quick and reliable integrations.
POLICY PLANNER
Policy Planner adds change workflow solutions to Security Manager, automating the entire change management process. Comprehensive rule lifecycle management enables security and operations teams to implement the right changes with precision across the entire rule lifecycle with fully customizable workflows. Policy Planner assesses the risk associated with new access requests in real time, giving teams the ability to immediately detect when changes will create new vulnerabilities or increase the threat surface.
POLICY OPTIMIZER
The Policy Optimizer module gives Security Manager the capability to automate existing rule review and maintenance workflows, helping to maintain continuous compliance and minimize the threat surface. It takes the guesswork out of network security policy management by ensuring that existing firewall rules are reviewed and recertified in accordance with compliance, business, and security policies. Using event-based triggers or search query results generated within Security Manager, Policy Optimizer automatically creates and sends tickets to policy owners to take action.
RISK ANALYZER
Risk Analyzer adds best-in-class vulnerability management to Security Manager by incorporating third-party vulnerability scanner data to evaluate network policy risk and uncover potential attack paths across the entire environment. Risk Analyzer simulates potential attacks, calculates attack vectors, and assesses potential damage, then displays results in a comprehensive and intuitive user dashboard. Extensive scenario testing helps prioritize vulnerability patching by allowing security teams to simulate patch deployments to determine their impacts to the overall network risk posture.
LUMETA
Lumeta is a real-time network visibility solution that monitors hybrid cloud environments for anomalies, potential threats, and compliance violations. It continuously scans the entire network infrastructure and discovers every device and connection including firewalls, routers, end points, and cloud devices. Using advanced behavioral detection techniques, Lumeta builds a baseline of network patterns and alerts security teams when suspicious activities or compliance violations are detected.
DISRUPTOPS
DisruptOps is a cloud security operations platform that monitors, alerts, and responds to security risk across your public cloud infrastructure. It monitors your runtime environment and surfaces the most critical security issues so you can remediate before they become incidents. Critical issues are distributed to the right responders within tools they already use: Slack, Teams, or Jira. DisruptOps brings Security and DevOps teams together to find and fix issues, fast.
© 2022 FireMon, LLC. All rights reserved. All other product and company names mentioned are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.
1P0125-EN-20220428-02

IMPROVE SECURITY OPERATIONS. IMPROVE SECURITY OUTCOMES.

