Outsmart cybercrime
Cyber education for every role
IT & Security Education / Certifications / Awareness & Anti-Phishing

People + skills + technology = security
At Infosec we believe arming people with the right knowledge is the best defense against cyber threats. From security awareness for your accounting team to secure coding training for your developers, we have the right security education to protect your employees and organization.
Change security behaviors. Reduce business risk.
Employees are not a cybersecurity problem. They're part of the solution. Empower them with the knowledge and skills to stay cyber secure at work and at home. With over 2,000 awareness and training resources, you'll have everything you need to prepare employees to detect, report and defeat cybercrime.

9+ annual training plans

400+ training modules

10 security awareness games

200+ newsletters, posters &
infographics

1,000+ phishing templates

34 supported languages

Personalize employee training with role-based modules and
gamified lessons in a variety of themes and styles to engage learners and strengthen your cybersecurity culture.

Personalize

Automate

Automate learner management, training campaigns and phishing simulations to keep lessons relevant -- and save you time.

Improve your training efforts with actionable data to make secure behaviors second nature
for every employee.

Improve

Analyze

Integrate

Integrate with your LMS, identify provider, endpoint protection and SOC to streamline program management, reporting and attack response.

Analyze employee risk scores, learning outcomes and your cybersecurity culture
to identify weaknesses and anticipate cyber threats.

Skill up & get certified -- hands-on
Put theory into practice with over 1,400 role-based courses, hands-on cyber ranges and labs. Learners progress from beginner to expert with training mapped to in-demand cyber roles like SOC Analyst and Cloud Security Engineer, as well as industry standards like the NICE Workforce Framework for Cybersecurity and MITRE ATT&CK® Matrix for Enterprise. Interactive cyber ranges go one step further to move learners from theory to practice through guided, realistic labs with clear learning objectives and actionable lessons.
Infosec Skills helps cyber leaders like you:

Prepare teams for ATT&CK tactics and
techniques with hands-on labs and
cyber ranges

Guide team development with 190+ learning paths mapped to the NICE
Framework

Assess knowledge and skills to
pinpoint gaps and training needs

Gauge exam readiness with customizable
certification practice exams

Fast-track certification with 100+ live, instructor-led boot
camps

Upgrade to a live boot camp for guaranteed certification
Certification is often more than a goal -- it's a business requirement. That's why we offer over 100 certification boot camps taught by industry experts with 10+ years of experience. Here's how we guarantee your certification success:
» Exam Pass Guarantee:* Students who don't pass their exam on the first attempt get a second attempt free.
» 100% Satisfaction Guarantee: Students who are not 100% satisfied with their boot camp at the end of day one may enroll in a different course free.
» Knowledge Transfer Guarantee: If your employee leaves within three months of certification, we will train another tuition-free for up to one year.

*Does not apply to CMMC-AB boot camps.

Engaging security education -- customized to each role.
Infosec helps you deliver the right security education to the right people at the right time. This allows you to go beyond basic education and compliance requirements, give every employee the skills they need to stay secure and inspire a culture of security at your organization.
Security culture is your organization's collective awareness, behaviors and perceptions about cybersecurity -- and your team. It's one of the greatest reflections of your security practices and a top predictor of employee behaviors. Infosec gives you the tools to measure your cybersecurity culture and the resources to turn it into one of your greatest cyber strengths.

708.689.0131

Let's get started

infosecinstitute.com

info@infosecinstitute.com

© 2022 Infosec, Inc. All rights reserved.

