BIS-3101

B I S - 3 1 0 1 Workstation
AEWIN Technologies Co., Ltd.
Desktop workstation featuring, Intel 8/9th Core i7/i5/i3 (Coffee Lake-S) processor and Intel® H310 PCH, support DDR4 up to 32GB, 1x dual-width GPU up to RTX-3070, 2x 2.5" or 2x 3.5" SATA3.0 HDD/SSD, 4x USB 3.1, 2x 1GbE RJ45
Features
Support Intel 8/9th Core i7/i5/i3 (Coffee Lake-S) processor series processor, LGA 1151 2x channel DDR4 2400MHz un-buffered / Non-ECC SODIMM, max support 32GB 1x dual width PCIe Gen 3 x16 slot, supporting RTX-3070

Workstation Edge Computing Server General Purpose Server

CLOUD

EDGE AI

STORAGE

Description
The BIS-3101 is a dimunitive system features Intel Embedded 9th Gen Core Processors for long term reliability, paired with your choice of Geforce RTX 3070 GPU or the data-center focused NVIDIA Tesla T4. BIS-3101 is in the Workstation form factor that allow deployme nt in edge application where server room or prepared location is not possible or available, and offering high-performance edge AI inferencing.
Modern businesses have a growing reliance on smart applications that requires the power of a GPU for the inference workloads. The local availability of GPU compute power de-emphasize the internet requirement, and allow inference workload to work for your business even when internet connection is unreliable, or inadvisable due to processing of sensitive data.
NVIDIA NGC tool kit can expedite the process of developing applications that can leverage the power of GPU through the familiar CUDA toolkit and deployed through kubernetes and containers. This allows fast concept to program to deployment, to deliver business services as quickly as possible. Through the usage of Kubernetes container management system, large scale deployment across the globe is possible and done simply through Kubernetes commands.
BIS-3101 is a strategic device that is a welcome addition to any business that wish to enlist the services of an Edge AI appliance. Able to support the familiar x86 based software along with NVIDIA's powerful CUDA toolkit, this enable rapid development of innovative smart applications that can accelerate your business.

Specifications

Processor System

CPU

Intel 9th Core i7/i5/i3 (Coffee Lake-S) processor

Chipset

Intel H310 PCH

CPU

AMI 64Mb SPI BIOS

Memory Technology
Capacity

Un-buffered / Non-ECC DDR4 2400MHz SODIMM
Max. up to 32GB

Expansion
Onboard Expansion Slots

1x PCIe x16 FHFL Dual SlotGPU Support

I/O USB

4x USB 3.1 Gen1 2x USB 2.0

Ethernet GbE Ethernet

2x 1GbE RJ45 ports

Storage
SATA M.2

2x 2.5" or 2x 3.5" SSD/HDD
1x E Key 1x M Key

Power Supply Watt

ATX 500W PSU

Mechanical and Environment

Form Factor LED
Dimension (W x D x H) Operating Temperature Storage Temperature Humidity
Certification

Desktop Workstation 1x Status LED 1x HDD LED 1x Power LED 240mm(W) x 377 mm(D) x 200mm(H)
Operating: -0 ~ 50°C ( 32 ~ 122°F )
-20 ~ 75°C (-4 ~ 167°F)
10 ~ 85% relative humidity, non-operating, non-condensing CE/FCC

Packing List 1x BIS-3101 unit

www.aewin.com

Networking Mastery

