Resilience through insight
BSI Connect is the integrated technology solution that inspires trust in your audit, compliance and supply chain activities, enabling you to build resilience through data-driven insight.

In our ever-changing connected world, one integrated tool is all that's needed to manage your business on the go. With BSI Connect, we bring our unmatched expertise together with advanced technology to empower you to make resilient decisions built on a single, trusted source of data.
Available through a range of different subscriptions, it offers a suite of tools suitable for everyone from small businesses to international enterprises and global supply chains.

BSI Connect benefits
Through flexible data collection and management tools, BSI Connect allows you to:
и perform real-time analytics и enhance visibility и build more resilient operations
and supply chains
Connect's consolidated, real-time information and robust analytic capabilities facilitate faster, better-informed decision making. The result is data-driven resilience embedded into your organization and supply chain, delivering improved performance.
Explore more at bsigroup.com

BSI Connect to manage your operational performance
Choose BSI Connect audit, incident and compliance tools to manage operational risk and performance for a more sustainable, resilient organization.

Feature BSI audit and testing data BSI corrective action plan management Analyse and benchmark BSI findings Access BSI reports, certificates and logos Create and schedule your internal audits Use preloaded audit templates or create your own Conduct audits on the go with the BSI Connect App Raise findings and actions Manage what individual users can see Compare BSI findings with your own Configure workflows and approval steps Configure fields (titles and other taxonomy) Manage training records Manage documents Manage assets Capture and manage incidents
Support Video tutorials Live training Technical support helpdesk Personalized system design to match your brand

BSI Connect

Portal

Plus

Custom

иии

иии

иии

иии

ии

ии

ии

ии

ии

ии

и

и

и

и

и

и

Portal

Plus

Custom

ии и и и

BSI Connect audit, incident and compliance tool subscriptions
BSI Connect Portal is included with your BSI certification; our entry subscription, which consolidates all your BSI information in one place.

BSI Connect Plus builds on this, incorporating all your audits, actions and findings.
BSI Connect Custom gives you the most capability for governance and compliance activities - it's flexible to support your needs.

BSI Connect to manage your supply chain
Our BSI Connect Screen platform infuses geographic risk data and analysis into the assessment process to provide a risk-based view of the supply chain.

Feature
Supply chain intelligence articles
Interactive news filters Special risk reports Personalized daily intelligence email updates Quarterly intelligence reviews Comprehensive country risk reports and insights Global interactive risk mapping Active monitoring on points of interest Country risk profiles with current supply chain trends Personalized dashboards Personalized intelligence alerts All articles, intelligence, news, special reports and country reports Access BSI supply chain incident data, trend analysis and BSI threat ratings for all countries (25 variables) Manage and review supplier audits Supplier compliance risk mapping Supplier audits and self-assessments using pre-built or custom templates Manage correct and preventative action (CAPA) Notifications when suppliers complete and submit audits or CAPA Assess supply chain audit risks with infused intelligence Seamless communication with global suppliers through automatic translations Set KPIs, risk ratings and compliance metrics
Support
Technical support helpdesk Access to BSI Intelligence Analysts Access to BSI Supply Chain Analysts Personalized system design to match your brand

BSI Connect Screen

News

Intelligence

Edge

иии

иии

ииии

ииии

иииии

иииии

иии

ии и

и ииии иии

News

Intelligence

Edge

иии и иии

BSI Connect Screen subscriptions
Subscriptions are available to suit the maturity of your supply chain.
BSI Connect Screen News is our entry level subscription Г an ideal starting point for the latest supply chain risk news.
BSI Connect Screen Intelligence builds on this, leveraging our team of analysts to provide comprehensive insight on global disruptions, trends,

and incident data, focused on customized points of interests that may compromise the integrity of your supply chain.
BSI Connect Screen Edge is our premium subscription. It combines the features of Screen Intelligence with our powerful supplier compliance management functionality. The result, a comprehensive, risk-based view that provides visibility across your supply chain.

Resilience through insight
Why BSI Connect?
Since our inception, BSI has connected individuals and organizations with best practice. This has allowed them to manage growth, strengthen synergy, build resilience and enable innovation. Connect is a continuation of this. Like the standards we create, connect is a term that is globally recognized and one that can be found in every aspect of our business. This simple word describes the overarching role of our digital solutions. Connecting individuals, systems and information, it inspires trust in audit and compliance activities, and enables resilience through data-driven insight.
Explore more at bsigroup.com

