Link to Corporate Leaders and CEOs report

A Practical Guide For Shields Up
Advice for Organizations in Implementing CISA's Cybersecurity Doctrine to Defend your Enterprise

Executive Summary
Since its inception in 2018, the U.S. Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) has worked to provide critical guidance and information to government and private sector organizations about critical cyber threats. In response to the Russia-Ukraine conflict, CISA issued its first-ever Shields Up notice, warning that with its cyber capabilities and history of targeting Western governments and corporations, cyberattacks from Russia are likely, if not imminent. In this notice, CISA provides guidance for organizations, corporate leaders and CEOs, and individuals around how best to prepare for and defend against this attack activity. In this white paper, we walk through the CISA guidance for organizations and provide recommendations for implementation and maturation.
Introduction
On February 25, 2022, two days after Russia began its military invasion of Ukraine, the U.S. Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) issued a rare Shields Up warning for US-based organizations, stating: "Every organization--large and small--must be prepared to respond to disruptive cyber activity."
The Shields Up warning was in direct response to increased Russian cyber aggression against Ukrainian and other targets in the region, including a spate of distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) and malware attacks. In addition to the possibility of disruptive nation-state activities affecting US targets, CISA also warned of an increase in ransomware activity seeking to take advantage of the geopolitical disruption.
CISA Shields Up guidance was comprehensive in its scope, making recommendations targeted at security organizations, corporate leaders and CEOs, and individual consumers. In this white paper, we break down the CISA guidance and provide concrete recommendations about how security organizations can implement this guidance quickly and comprehensively.

PAGE 1

What is CISA and Why Does It Matter?
The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency "leads the national effort to understand, manage, and reduce risk to our cyber and physical infrastructure." The organization, part of the Department of Homeland Security, works to connect stakeholders in industry and government to each other and to resources, analyses, and tools to help them build their own cyber, communications, and physical security and resilience, in turn helping to ensure a secure and resilient infrastructure for the American people.
Created in 2018, CISA is now the operational lead for all federal cybersecurity, and issues requirements and guidance for federal agencies and federal contractors, as well as guidance for private sector organizations and state and local governments. Over the past 12 months, CISA has had many occasions on which to do this. In 2021, the agency issued two dozen alerts covering everything from ransomware attacks like that on Colonial Pipeline, to urgent advisories around ProxyShell and Log4j, to guidance on Russian Foreign Intelligence Service cyber operations.
CISAs alerts, and the guidance the agency offers alongside them, help organizations identify and prioritize the most pressing cybersecurity threats. It also helps security leaders effectively communicate these priorities to the broader organization.
What is Shields Up?
The Shields Up warning issued by CISA is the first of its kind, and provides sweeping guidance for security organizations, business leaders, and individuals. While the notice acknowledges that there are "no specific or credible cyber threats to the U.S. homeland at this time," it warns that, in light of unprovoked Russian aggression against Ukraine, the cybersecurity impacts may extend beyond the region of conflict.
The CISA Shields Up guidance for organizations falls into four broad categories.
1. Reduce the likelihood of a damaging cyber intrusion 2. Take steps to quickly detect a potential intrusion 3. Ensure that the organization is prepared to respond if an intrusion occurs 4. Maximize the organization's resilience to a destructive cyber incident
We will discuss each of these four categories with concrete steps organizations can take to build organizational resilience. For more information about Shields Up guidance for leaders, visit www.cisa.gov and check out the ExtraHop whitepaper: "A Practical Guide for Shields Up: Advice for Corporate Leaders and CEOs in Implementing CISA's Cybersecurity Doctrine to Defend Your Enterprise."
A Practical Guide for Shields Up PAGE 2

Implementing Guidance and Recommendations for All Organizations
This section details the four key organizational recommendations from the CISA Shields Up warning, and provides specific implementation and maturation guidance on each element of those recommendations.
For CISA's guidance for corporate leaders and CEOs and associated implementation recommendations, click here.
1. Reduce the Likelihood of a Damaging Cyber Intrusion
1.1 CISA Guidance: Validate that all remote access to the organization's network and privileged or administrative access requires multi-factor authentication.
Implementation and Maturation Recommendations: Multifactor authentication is important to protect both individual users and organizations, but for organizations, having a robust identity management strategy in place is also critical. Identity and access management should be integrated with multi-factor authentication as a management best practice.
While this is an important perimeter defense strategy for both on-premises and cloud environments, organizations also need to take a "trust but verify" approach. Organizations should have monitoring in place to identify behavioral anomalies associated with authenticated users accessing the network to quickly determine whether an account and the systems for which it has privileges have been compromised.
1.2 CISA Guidance: Ensure that software is up to date, prioritizing updates that address known exploited vulnerabilities identified by CISA.
Implementation and Maturation Recommendations: Both the average number of connected devices on a typical network and the rate of newly discovered CVEs have been rising rapidly in recent years, making the task of eliminating vulnerabilities increasingly challenging for modern enterprises. In 2021, the number of zero day vulnerabilities more than doubled year-over-year, jumping from 35 in 2020 to 83. The criticality of CVEs is also one the rise. Vulnerabilities like ProxyShell and Log4Shell affected ubiquitous software used by nearly every enterprise and government agency in the world.
Updating and patching connected devices both on a regular basis, and immediately following the disclosure of a new vulnerability is critical to eliminating attack vectors. At minimum, an effective vulnerability management program should include both an up-to-date inventory of all devices and applications, along with periodic scanning, tracking, and escalation of externally facing or critical vulnerabilities.
A Practical Guide for Shields Up PAGE 3

More mature organizations and organizations in critical industries like healthcare, government, and financial services need to adopt even more advanced vulnerability management practices. This includes up-to-the-minute visibility into devices on the network, including IoT and personal devices that cannot be managed with traditional endpoint protection tools. Organizations should also consider implementing tools that group devices by criticality and privilege to more effectively triage updating and vulnerability assessments. 1.3 CISA Guidance: Confirm that the organization's IT personnel have disabled all ports and protocols that are not essential for
business purposes. Implementation and Maturation Recommendations: Attackers may use scanning tools to search for open ports that can provide an entry point into a vulnerable network application. Vulnerability scanners should be used to identify internal ports and IPs that may be exploited across both on-premises and cloud environments. Cloud services are frequently the target of attackers as these workloads are often spun up without the correct oversight or controls, making proactive protocol and port management especially critical. Organizations should also not assume that disabling insecure or non-essential ports and protocols is one-and-done task. According to a 2021 study conducted by ExtraHop, 67% of environments had ten or more devices running Server Message Block (SMB) version 1, the protocol exploited in major attacks including WannaCry and NotPetya. Other insecure protocols, including Link-Local Multicast Name Resolution (LLMNR) and New Technology LAN Manager (NTLM) version 1 were also prevalent across environments. A survey of security and IT decision-makers issued earlier this year corroborated these findings. Sixty-nine percent of respondents acknowledged transmitting sensitive data over unencrypted HTTP connections instead of more secure HTTPS connections. Sixty-eight percent admitted that they are still running SMBv1, nine years after Microsoft officially deprecated the protocol and five years after EternalBlue and related CVEs came to light. In addition to regularly scanning for and eliminating insecure protocols and ports, organizations also need a plan to permanently replace the outdated operating systems that require these protocols.
A Practical Guide for Shields Up PAGE 4

1.4 CISA Guidance: If the organization is using cloud services, ensure that IT personnel have reviewed and implemented strong controls outlined in CISA's guidance.
Implementation and Maturation Recommendations: According to the IBM-Ponemon Institute 2021 Cost of Data Breach Report, public cloud breaches cost, on average, almost 30% more than breaches of hybrid cloud environments. While cloud adoption continues to accelerate, cloud security has failed to keep pace.
CISA's guidance for securing cloud workloads includes zero-trust principles, establishing a baseline of normal activity within a network, and filtering and detection solutions. Implementing an identity access management solution to authenticate users and manage privileges, and adopting network segmentation is necessary but insufficient on its own to protect cloud applications and workloads.
In addition to implementing zero-trust principles, organizations also need to:
· Establish behavioral baselines for cloud workloads and continuously monitor these workloads for anomalous activity, including privilege escalation that bypasses identity and access controls.
· Have a mechanism for automatically and continuously discovering cloud workloads. One of the biggest challenges of the cloud era is the ease with which cloud resources can be spun up and configured to access network resources. Organizations need to have a complete and up-to-date picture of their cloud attack surface so they can ensure these services are properly configured.
· Introduce low-friction mechanisms for detecting and remediating threat activity in cloud environments to encourage business leaders to prioritize security as part of cloud maturation.
Trusted, vendor-neutral frameworks such as the Center for Internet Security (CIS) Foundations Benchmark provide a strong roadmap for organizations as they enhance out their cloud security maturity.
1.5 CISA Guidance: Sign up for CISA's free cyber hygiene services, including vulnerability scanning, reducing exposure to threats.
Implementation and Maturation Recommendations: Security hygiene is a critical preventative step toward reducing risk of attack. Organizations should routinely search for newly introduced insecure protocols and vulnerabilities, and educate all personnel on the dangers of phishing attacks.
While vulnerability scanning is an important tool for SecOps teams, as described above, many organizations knowingly use vulnerable software and run insecure protocols. Patching even critical vulnerabilities often takes a backseat to business continuity priorities­a short-sighted but common approach. Organizations should add behavior-based detection of post-compromise "midgame" activity to identify threat behaviors associated with exploitation of both known and unknown vulnerabilities, as well as activity stemming from a compromised user profile.
A Practical Guide for Shields Up PAGE 5

2. Take Steps to Quickly Detect a Potential Intrusion
2.1 CISA Guidance: Ensure that cybersecurity/IT personnel are focused on identifying and quickly assessing any unexpected or unusual network behavior. Enable logging in order to better investigate issues or events.
Implementation and Maturation Recommendations: The ability to detect unexpected or unusual network behavior is the difference between malicious intrusion and a full-scale breach. Attackers use this midgame (post-compromise) activity to escalate privileges and expand their access in order to maximize the blast radius of an eventual event­ whether it's exfiltration, encryption, or a combination of both.
Organizations should take a layered approach to detection and response. As noted in the CISA guidance, enabling logging wherever possible and aggregating that log data is important as both a detection and an investigation tool. Likewise, instrumentation of individual endpoints with agent-based monitoring provides code-level visibility into activity for granular insight into attack activity on those devices.
While many organizations already used log- and endpoint-based monitoring tools, when looking at the deployment of modern endpoint detection and response (EDR) among enterprise infrastructure, ExtraHop research found that on average, nearly half of the devices are unmanaged, leaving gaping holes in their security posture. Implementing networkbased detection provides the critical third leg of the stool for detecting and responding to threat activity.
For organizations with limited staffing and resources, managed services should be used to outsource the workload of detecting and responding to unusual network behavior.
2.2 CISA Guidance: Confirm that the organization's entire network is protected by antivirus/antimalware software and that signatures in these tools are updated.
Implementation and Maturation Recommendations: As the CISA guidance suggests, at a minimum, signature-based antivirus software should be deployed on all endpoints. However, rules- and signature-based detection only goes so far. Rules and signatures, whether in a firewall, on an endpoint, or as part of an intrusion detection system (IDS) only detect known threat activity. Attacks that use zero-day vulnerabilities or other new techniques can easily evade these approaches, leaving organizations and their networks exposed. Moreover, agent-based detection tools, including antivirus, are frequent targets of defense evasion tactics that either disable agents or identify and avoid devices with instrumentation. Organizations need to adopt tools that use behavior-based detections and incident data collection, to gain more robust, real-time visibility across both endpoints and their network communications for faster detection, investigation, and response. They also need to adopt tools that passively monitor for threat behavior to detect attacks that use defense evasion techniques.
A Practical Guide for Shields Up PAGE 6

2.3 CISA Guidance: If working with Ukrainian organizations, take extra care to monitor, inspect, and isolate traffic from thse organizations; closely review access controls for that traffic.
Implementation and Maturation Recommendations: Packet filtering via a network firewall should be used to scan and filter data transmissions from countries-of-origin that have a high incidence of malicious IPs, including Russia, China, and Ukraine. In addition, organizations should:
· Implement packet filtering and scanning for all data transmissions from Russian, Chinese, or Ukrainian host IP addresses. · Sandbox attachments from any email, documents received, or documents retrieved from a dropbox type system that
Russian, Ukrainian, or Chinese actors can access. · Closely monitor behavior associated with any IPs originating from Ukraine, Russia, China, and other known nation-state
threat actors.
3. Ensure That the Organization is Prepared to Respond if an Intrusion Occurs.
3.1 CISA Guidance: Designate a crisis-response team with main points of contact for a suspected cybersecurity incident and roles/responsibilities within the organization, including technology, communications, legal, and business continuity.
Implementation and Maturation Recommendations: Designating a crisis response team is a critical part of any incident response. This team will serve as the front line in coordinating the organization's response strategy. In addition to frontline security responders, crisis response teams should also include IT Operation, DevOps, legal, and communications. Organizations should also determine who will be responsible for communicating with key constituencies including shareholders, customers, and employees.
Crisis response teams and their efforts will ultimately be more successful if the following frameworks are in place:
· An organizational continuity of business operations plan (BCP). · A crisis management and communications plan (CMCP). · A disaster recovery plan for critical technologies and production capabilities (DRP). · An incident response plan for responding to cybersecurity incidents (IRP). ExtraHop recommends using NIST SP
800 61R2 as a guide.
A Practical Guide for Shields Up PAGE 7

All of these plans should keep in mind regulatory requirements such as GDPR, CCP, HIPAA, and others that may have time based disclosure requirements (for example, GDP requires disclose of any breach within 72 hours). Due to these disclosure requirements, organizations also need to consider how quickly they can determine the blast radius of an incident. Access to network intelligence as part of a comprehensive incident response strategy can rapidly accelerate an organization's ability to identify all compromised systems. This not only helps ensure compliance, it also can help avert a broader business disruption, as described above regarding Colonial Pipeline.
As more regulations regarding the management of cybersecurity incidents are enacted­for example, the proposed Ransom Disclosure Act legislation­this will become a more and more important element of a comprehensive response strategy.
3.2 CISA Guidance: Assure availability of key personnel; identify means to provide surge support for responding to an incident.
Implementation and Maturation Recommendations: Identify all necessary external resources, such as cloud service providers, media representatives, law enforcement, and external legal counsel. For your BCP, CMCP, DRP, and IRP, identify critical positions by role, rather than by name, due to the frequent movement of personnel.
3.3 CISA Guidance: Conduct a tabletop exercise to ensure that all participants understand their roles during an incident.
Implementation and Maturation Recommendations: While tabletop exercises play an important role in determining organizational response readiness, those exercises will be far more effective when the following elements are in place. Tabletop exercises should be used to stress test these plans and identify gaps before an actual incident occurs.
· Conduct an annual tabletop exercise for your BCP, CMCP, DRP, and IRP. · You can combine BCP, CMCP, and DRP into a single tabletop exercise, if desired. · You can combine your DRP and IRP into another tabletop exercise, if desired.
4. Maximize the Organization's Resilience to a Destructive Cyber Incident
4.1 CISA Guidance: Test backup procedures to ensure that critical data can be rapidly restored if the organization is impacted by ransomware or a destructive cyberattack; ensure that backups are isolated from network connections.
Implementation and Maturation Recommendations: In October 2021, Reuters reported exclusively on the efforts of U.S. and other foreign government agencies to take down the REvil ransomware syndicate. Initially taken offline in July following the attack on Kaseya, REvil was back online and active within a few weeks. However, its servers were once again taken down. According to the Reuters article, "When [REvil] gang member 0_neday and others restored those websites from a backup last month, he unknowingly restarted some internal systems that were already controlled by law enforcement."
A Practical Guide for Shields Up PAGE 8

In other words, the government agencies responsible for taking down REvil did so using a common ransomware tactic: Don't just compromise systems and data, remain inside long enough to compromise the backups of those systems and data to maximize damage and make recovery (and the ability to avoid paying the ransom) nearly impossible.
There are several things an organization can do as part of its back-up procedures to help avoid this scenario:
· As the CISA guidance notes, ensure that backups are isolated from network connections. · Have physical backups of the most critical organizational data. · Perform full monthly backups and perform partial backups at least once per week. Store those backups in a
separate physical location. · Backup data to the cloud, using infrastructure as a service (IaaS) data storage capabilities. Have redundant
cloud backup storage for all cloud hosted data, applications, and compute capabilities. Store backups in multiple availability zones, or with multiple cloud storage providers. · Ensure safe manual failover for all critical equipment, including manufacturing equipment, power generation and transmission equipment, and petroleum or chemical processing equipment. · Proactively determine realistic timelines to restore systems from backup. Determine which systems will get first priority in the event they need to be restored. Set expectations with corporate leadership about both timelines and priorities so they are prepared to communicate with customers and shareholders in the event of an attack. · Closely monitor backup infrastructure, including cloud backups, for anomalous behavior.
4.2 CISA Guidance: If using industrial control systems or operational technology, conduct a test of manual controls to ensure that critical functions remain operable if the organization's network is unavailable or untrusted.
Implementation and Maturation Recommendations: When Colonial Pipeline was hit by Darkside ransomware in May 2021, the company made the difficult decision to shut down not only its IT-based operations, but also its OT-based operations, including the pipeline itself. This decision, which resulted in a gas panic that saw people along the Eastern seaboard of the U.S. waiting in hours-long lines and filling up any available receptacle with gasoline, was not because the OT was actually compromised by ransomware. It's because Colonial Pipeline couldn't easily determine that it wasn't.
Colonial Pipeline is an important illustration of why it's so critical to maintain controls on both IT and OT and industrial controls systems (ICS).
· Conduct operational testing to ensure safe manual operations of all critical equipment in the event of loss of either internet connectivity or premise network operations.
· Use NIST SP 800 82R2 as a resource to secure your operational technology. · Implement and test air gaps between OT and IT systems as a best practice. · Implement monitoring of all communications between IT and OT systems for quick investigation into the scope of
any incident.
A Practical Guide for Shields Up PAGE 9

The Foundations of Information, Network, and Cloud Security
The CISA Shields Up Guidance provides an important road map for hardening an organization's infrastructure in times of crisis. An organization's cybersecurity maturity, access to resources, and support from corporate leaders, all affect how easy it will be to implement those recommendations. ExtraHop recommends the following 10 areas for organizations to focus on in maturing their cybersecurity approach and posture to prepare for future threats.
1. Determine Your Risk Management Strategy An enterprise risk management strategy is the process of identifying and understanding what your risks are and how much those risks could cost your enterprise. Identify the sources of risk, including people, processes, technology, and infrastructure, and assess the associated financial, operational, and reputational fallout.
2. Determine Your Most Appropriate Technical Cybersecurity Framework Determine your best, most appropriate, technical cybersecurity framework for your business environment. Robust technical frameworks include the NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF), Center for Internet Security (CIS) Top 18 Critical Security Controls, ISO 27001/2, or NIST SP 800 53R5. Note that cybersecurity frameworks should be implemented in addition to any regulatory compliance frameworks, as regulatory compliance is not equal to effective cybersecurity.
3. Get Executive Stakeholder Support To obtain the operational and technical resources necessary to minimize risks and implement your chosen cybersecurity framework, it's important to gain executive stakeholder support from the CEO, COO, CCO, and CFO. Security leaders can leverage CISA and other guidance to help effectively communicate with these stakeholders about risks and priorities. Security leaders should also work with corporate leaders to plan for communications in the event of a breach.
4. Maintain an Inventory of Your Assets Asset management is the process of identifying, documenting, and continuously maintaining an accurate inventory of devices, applications, cloud assets (SaaS, IaaS, and PaaS), user accounts, and vendors. This process is a critical step toward knowing what is connected to your environment, and who has access. Asset management lays the groundwork for effective mitigation of vulnerabilities, identifying and remediating any insecure protocols, and detecting unauthorized user access.
5. Manage Your Access Controls Stolen credentials from phishing and brute force are a common way for attackers to gain access to your data. To help prevent this, your organization should effectively provision and carefully manage who has access to your environment. Know who your users are, including administrative, elevated privilege, general, and third-party vendors who may require access to your environment.
A Practical Guide for Shields Up PAGE 10

6. Reduce Your Attack Surface Reduce your attack surface by managing your environment. Implement effective change management, configuration management, and patch management to reduce misconfiguration errors. Reduce end of life and end of service (EOL/ EOS) vulnerabilities for necessary applications by implementing compensating controls.
Reduce overall vulnerabilities by implementing an effective vulnerability management program that includes periodic scanning, tracking, and escalation of externally facing or critical/high vulnerabilities.
7. Maximize Your Visibility To help detect threats and stop threats at endpoints and post-compromise, maximize your organization's visibility of the technical operating environment through effective detection tools. These should include network detection and response (NDR), endpoint detection and response (EDR), and security information and event management (SIEM).
8. Monitor Unexpected and Unusual Behavior Unusual behavior can take many forms, and can originate from any software. SolarWinds SUNBURST is an excellent illustration of how attackers used notoriously "noisy" software to obscure unusual behavior. Monitor for attack techniques that exploit public facing applications, connect to external remote services, use brute force to gain access, or exploit credential access or command and control. Both device-level monitoring as well as cross-network monitoring should be used to identify patterns of potential threat activity.
9. Identify and Cover the Gaps Ensure you have a complete picture of your security posture, including unmanaged devices (such as IoT) and areas where logging is not possible (such as DNS). While instrumenting devices through logging and agents is best practice, many organizations lack much-needed visibility from network traffic to inventory unknown assets, unmanaged devices, and devices that cannot be instrumented. This approach can also help ensure the security of cloud workloads.
10. Plan for and Prepare for Critical Incidents Planning and training for critical incidents includes disaster recovery and incident response. Preparation also includes ensuring that your company has frequent backups that are usable, accurate, and safely maintained.

ABOUT EXTRAHOP NETWORKS
ExtraHop is on a mission to stop advanced threats with security that can't be undermined, outsmarted, or compromised. Our dynamic cyber defense platform, Reveal(x) 360, uses cloud scale AI to help enterprises detect and respond to advanced threats--before they can compromise your business. With complete visibility from ExtraHop, enterprises can detect intrusions, hunt threats, and investigate incidents with confidence. When you don't have to choose between protecting your business and moving it forward, that's security, uncompromised.
© 2022 ExtraHop Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. ExtraHop is a registered trademark of ExtraHop Networks, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. All other products are the trademarks of their respective owners.

info@extrahop.com www.extrahop.com

