COMPANY OVERVIEW

The Only Cloud-Delivered DLP Platform

No-Compromise Data Protection

Today's most successful enterprises are instrumenting and digitizing virtually every aspect of their business. This change is dramatically increasing the value and volume of sensitive data that must be protected.
Enterprise data loss prevention (DLP) is a time-tested solution that ensures your organization's most sensitive data is properly protected. However, the rapid release schedules and accelerating changes in operating systems, applications, and browsers can cause many traditional enterprise DLP solutions to be woefully inefficient. Organizations using software from DLP providers who aren't keeping up are spending too much time, effort and budget troubleshooting,

and not enough time delivering meaningful data protection. New entrants are touting "DLP-lite" as a solution to the inefficiencies of traditional enterprise DLP, though they often gloss over the big compromises inherent in "DLP-lite". With lite- or no-agent architectures and no endpoint controls, what you gain from an "easy install" and lite-agent, you lose in increased risk of data leakage and loss.
You need a better way to protect the data that matters most to your organization without the inefficiencies of traditional enterprise DLP or the data protection compromises of "DLPlite."

How We're Different
Three pillars form the foundation of our more efficient, no-compromise data protection architecture.

Cloud-Delivered Data Protection Traditional enterprise DLP's inefficiencies start with the requirement to throw loads of datacenter servers and people at the DLP problem. Nocompromise data protection delivers greater effectiveness and higher performance through a more efficient cloud-native, multi-tenant architecture. Powered by AWS, Digital Guardian's data protection has been cloud-delivered since 2017, enabling you to cut data center costs, and allocate more people to insights instead of infrastructure.

Cross Platform Coverage Windows, macOS, and Linux are the three most common operating systems in the global enterprise. Employing an enterprise DLP solution that supports less than all three platforms leaves big gaps in your data protection program. Using "DLP-lite" that disregards the nuances of how data can be manipulated across operating systems (copy/paste, save-as, print screen, etc.) results in large blind spots. Digital Guardian is alone in investing in feature-rich enterprise visibility and controls across the leading operating systems, browsers, and applications.

Flexible Controls No-compromise data protection allows organizations to choose from a wide variety of controls based on the sensitivity level of a file ranging from monitor and report, to user justification, to outright blocking an action. "DLPlite" is absent the concept of control. "DLP-lite" software will tell you sensitive data has been compromised, but only after the data has been exfiltrated. Our no-compromise protection provides you with the controls to make sure that sensitive data never gets out in the first place - no matter how the data is modified or where it goes.

www.digitalguardian.com

SHARE

The Digital Guardian Data Protection Platform

Data Analysis Dynamic Reporting Case Management
Threat Analysis
DG Endpoint Agent

DG ARC

RESTful APIs

SIEM, SOAR, CASB, Splunk, etc.

Data Export

DG Appliance

DGMC

The Digital Guardian platform is unique among DLP solutions in its ability to support both a "top-down," use case-based approach (focused on known data types or user groups) or a "bottom-up," data risk discovery approach. Our "bottom-up" approach enables you to gain visibility even before you create policies by showing you where sensitive data is located, how it flows in the organization, and where it is put at risk.

Endpoint Agent Delivers the deepest visibility available on the market. Our agent captures and records all system, user, and data events - on or off the network. · Noninvasive, context-aware protection · Automatically blocks and controls only those behaviors
that pose a threat · Monitors all structured and unstructured file types,
applications, and data movement · Applies policies based on user role and usage rights
Analytics & Reporting Cloud (ARC) Provides cloud-delivered analytics, workflows and reporting. Running on Amazon AWS, DG ARC correlates and analyzes system, user, and data events from endpoint agents and network appliance to provide the visibility and context you need to identify and remediate insider and outsider threats. · Behavioral-based rules and contextual intelligence deliver
a complete view of risks to sensitive data, whether human or business process driven · Visual presentation of DG's data usage insights · Modern, SaaS UI ­ click, drag, drop, pivot, filter · Case and incident management made easy ­ communicate, collaborate, and aggregate · Right click response - real-time updates and controls

Network Appliance Protects data at rest and in motion with low overhead. Our physical or virtual appliances classify, monitor, and control sensitive data across your networks, storage repositories, databases and cloud applications like Office 365. · Web and Email network DLP - single deployment or
global distribution · Discovery - locate, classify, and remediate sensitive data · Inspection includes keywords, regular expressions,
dictionaries, file metadata (type, size, name), file category
Management Console Enables configuring and deploying agents, managing policies, alerts, and reports.

Technology Partners and Integrations Digital Guardian has developed custom applications and leverages APIs to integrate with the products you already own. Technology and partnership integrations include:

www.digitalguardian.com

SHARE

No-Compromise Technology Augmented by Deep Data Protection Expertise
Digital Guardian's Managed Security Programs (MSPs) act as a remote extension of your team and provide data protection as a service. Our security experts will host, administer, and run your data security platform. These 24*7 global analyst teams that live, eat, and breathe data protection will help you contain insider and outsider threats before sensitive data is lost.

Managed Security Program for Endpoint DLP Achieve faster time to value with endpoint data loss prevention as a service.
What You Get
DLP Experts Continuously Hunting for Insider Threats

Managed Detection & Response Get the latest advanced threat defense strategies and intelligence.
What You Get
Elite Team of Analysts Continuously Hunting for Cyber Threats

Managed Security Program for Network DLP Discover, monitor, and protect regulated data faster and more efficiently.
What You Get
Data Compliance Analysts Continuously Searching For Insider Threats

Customized Rule Development and Optimization

EDR Rule Development & Reporting

Proven, Insight-Driven Framework

Advanced DLP Reporting Packs

Eyes On Glass for Near Real-Time Alerting

Monthly Executive Reports

Around the Clock Access and Support
Near Real-Time Alerting

Threat Intelligence Integrations Provide a Full Picture
Around the Clock Access and Support

Fully Managed Data Security Compliance Infrastructure
Highest Accuracy Identification of PHI and PII

Monthly Executive Reports

Incident Response Services

Ongoing Improvement Of Your Security Posture

Digital Guardian provides the industry's only security platform that is purpose built to stop data theft. Our platform performs across the corporate network, traditional endpoints, and cloud applications, buttressed by a big data cloud service, to make it easier to see and block all threats to sensitive information. For almost 15 years it has enabled data rich

organizations to protect their most valuable assets with a choice of SaaS or managed service deployment. Digital Guardian's unique data awareness combined with behavioral threat detection and response, enables you to protect data without slowing the pace of your business.

CHALLENGERS

LEADERS

A Recognized Leader.

LEADER Just ask Gartner. Digital Guardian is the only Enterprise Data Loss Prevention Gartner MQ Leader exclusively focused on data protection.

CoSoSys

Forcepoint

Symantec Digital Guardian

Intel Security Fidelis Cybersecurity

GTB Technologies

Clearswift

InfoWatch

Magic Quadrant Leader

Zecurion Somansa
SearchInform

NICHE PLAYERS

VISIONARIES

OFFICE LOCATIONS
Corporate HQ 275 Wyman St, Suite 250, Waltham, MA, 02451 USA
Phone 781-788-8180 Fax 781-788-8188

Utah 3130 West Maple Loop Drive, Suite 110 Lehi, UT, 84043 USA

United Kingdom 10 John Street WC1N 2EB, London United Kingdom
Phone +44(0)207-469-0940

Japan Mayapada Shiodome Plaza 9F, 2-11-4 Higashi-Shimbashi, Minato-ku Tokyo, 105-0021, Japan
Phone +81-3-6435-6207 Fax +81-6435-6204

India Stone Ridge Centre 4th Floor, Survey No: 12 & 13 Opp. Google, Kondapur Main Road, Hyderabad - 500084
Phone +91-40-4868-7872

