DATA SHEET

Cequence API Security Platform
ML-Powered Platform for Stronger Application Security

Introduction
Organizations that increasingly rely on APIs to power their business are often targeted by attacks that can cause online fraud, business logic abuse, exploits and unintended data leakage. Traditional approaches to preventing these attacks often require multiple point solutions that are largely ineffective and are hard to manage. What's needed is an innovative, ML-based platform that provides you with complete visibility and actionable intelligence to protect your modern application infrastructure.
Cequence API Security Platform
The Cequence API Security Platform solves these challenges with the most comprehensive API security offering that unifies runtime API visibility, security risk monitoring, and patented behavioral fingerprinting technology to consistently detect and protect against ever evolving online attacks.
> CQAI uses customizable Machine Learning models to analyze web applications and APIs resulting in a unique Behavioral Fingerprint that determines malicious or benign intent. Findings are then used for policy enforcement or exported via a REST-based API to an existing component of your security infrastructure.

Cequence Application Security Platform
Delivers the most effective and adaptive web and API protection solution that enables your business to remain resilient in today's ever-changing business and threat landscape. Key benefits include:
> Continuous runtime API discovery and risk analysis helps you uncover shadow APIs and coding errors that can result in compromise or data loss.
> Improves developer productivity by eliminating JavaScript and mobile SDK integration requirements
> Protects your applications with advanced security features in a matter of hours, not weeks or years

> Bot Defense enforces bot mitigation policies

based on CQAI findings with a range of response

options including blocking, rate limiting, geofencing and deception. Stop vulnerability exploits

Bot Defense

API Sennel

and address PCI compliance requirements with

Policy Engine

the optional App Firewall add-on license.

Threat Intelligence

Rest APIs

System Integraon

> API Sentinel integrates with your API

management infrastructure to identify, inventory and analyze all your APIs allowing to discover and remediate security risks before they are published

Predefined System Rules

Tools

Behavior

CQAI

Credenals Infrastructure

Custom Rules

or exploited by attackers.

Network Traffic Processing

Deployed as a SaaS solution, the Cequence ASP can begin protecting your applications in a matter of

CEQUENCE API SECURITY PLATFORM

hours, with the most effective and adaptive protection

from online fraud, business logic attacks, exploits and unintended data leakage. As a result, your applications and your

business will remain resilient against today's ever-changing business and threat landscape.

Cequence API Security Platform

DATA SHEET

CQAI: No JavaScript or Mobile SDK Required
CQAI uses more than 160 ML-based automation indicators to perform a multi-dimensional analysis of your web applications and APIs, resulting in a unique Behavioral Fingerprint that continually tracks sophisticated attacks, even as they retool to avoid detection. The in-depth analysis performed by CQAI brings the added benefit of identifying benign forms of automation such as approved content aggregators, that can then be managed with separate policies.

CQAI ML-based Analytics Engine

Bot Defense and App Firewall: Customizable Rules, Policies and Response Options

Application and attack analysis findings can be used to create and enforce custom policies that result in a positive

security model ­ allowing what you want while denying all else. Predefined policies for OWASP Top 10 and PCI DSS 6.6

"We chose Cequence after extensive market research and found the Cequence AI platform to offer the best solution for the attacks we most often face.

stops exploits and addresses compliance requirements. Discovered attacks can be mitigated using a range of response options including blocking, rate limiting, geo-fencing and deception, a technique that allows you to mislead the attacker into believing that their attacks have been successful.
API Sentinel: Runtime API Inventory and Risk Analysis API Sentinel integrates with your API infrastructure to discover

Manager, Security and Risk Management, Financial Services, Gartner Peer Insights 5 Star Review

and inventory all your public facing APIs including shadow and unmanaged. Discovered APIs are continuously tracked and analyzed

to uncover security risks introduced by coding errors.

Easily Integrates with Existing Infrastructure REST-based APIs allow you to import 3rd party data to enhance CQAI analysis, or you can export the findings to your existing IT infrastructure for post-mortem analysis, correlation, or enforcement by your firewall or other security device.

Deploys in Minutes
Cequence ASP can be enabled to protect your web applications and APIs in as little as 60 minutes and can immediately begin reducing the operational burden associated with preventing attacks that can result in fraud or data loss. Alternatively, the modular, container-based architecture allows the ASP to be deployed in your data center, your cloud environment, or as a hybrid.

CEQUENCE API SECURITY PLATFORM

Bot Defense

App Firewall

API Sennel

CQAI

Defender Technology Integraons

CDN

Applicaon Load

API Gateway

Reverse Proxy Ingress Controller

Balancer

Web Apps Mobile Apps API

PUBLIC CLOUD

SAAS

DATA CENTER

®

   100 Murphy Avenue, Suite 300, Sunnyvale, CA 94086 1-650-437-6338 info@cequence.ai www.cequence.ai

© 2021 Cequence Security, Inc. All rights reserved. Part#EN01201-7

