DATASHEET
Security Analytics and Operations Platform
A Unified Platform for Cybersecurity Detection and Response
Why Securonix?
Enterprises are ingesting more data than ever before, but many legacy SIEM solutions are inflexible and lack architecture resiliency. Our cloud-native solution features a big data, open SaaS infrastructure that supports better performance and scalability for modern enterprises.
Simplified and Efficient Operations No need to re-architect your solution as you grow. Our cloud-native platform offers ondemand scaling, dynamic provisioning, and the architecture resiliency needed to secure your ever-evolving organization.
Industry-Leading Analytics Uncover complex threats with minimal noise using analytics that leverage machine learning algorithms, contextualized enrichment, and user-based risk scoring.

The Primary Elements of the Securonix Platform
Next-Gen SIEM Achieve advanced detection at scale. Our SIEM combines log management, analytics, automation, and response capabilities into a single, unified solution. UEBA Eliminate alert fatigue with security analytics. Our solution leverages sophisticated machine learning algorithms and behavior analytics to help you prioritize and mitigate high-risk events versus low-value alerts. Open XDR Empower your security teams with complete visibility. XDR helps your analysts efficiently identify, investigate, and respond to hard-to-detect threats in your environment.
SOAR
CORE PRODUCTS

ADD-ONS

SIEM UEBA XDR

PACKAGED SOLUTION BEHAVIORAL ANALYTICS

Adversary Behavior Analytics

SDL

Specialized Content Packages

1

Security Analytics and Operations Platform | Datasheet

Behavioral Analytics

One Platform, Many Use Cases
Log Data Cloud Monitoring Cyber Threat Monitoring
Insider Threat

Healthcare Monitoring Fraud Monitoring Identity & Access Analytics Network Tra ic Analytics

Log Data

CMDB

Identity Information

Threat Intelligence

Analyst Response

Access Entitlement

Securonix delivers out-of-the-box cloud connectors, business applications, and content that enable you to implement a variety of cybersecurity and fraud monitoring use cases including: insider threat, cloud monitoring, and more, across industry segments.
Flexible Deployment Options
Securonix was built with an open and modular architecture to support diverse hybrid IT infrastructures. Our platform allows for flexibility in deployment, integrations, and data storage. · SaaS: Maintain complete data segregation in a multi-tenant cloud environment for more
control and transparency around your data usage and privacy. · Bring Your Own Cloud: Utilize a split architecture solution where you keep your data within
your own cloud implementation while still realizing the benefits of our Next-Gen SIEM.

Threat Content, Delivered as a Service
Get the most relevant threat content, delivered as a service. Our diverse team brings industryrenowned data scientists and threat experts together to help you discover tomorrow's threats today with the latest threat advisories and threat content.
Threat Researchers investigate new malware strains

Threat Hunters search on
IOCs and TTPs

Continuous Cycle

Content Engineers
publish detection rules

Integrate With a Vast Technical Partner Ecosystem
Securonix is proud to join forces with leading security technology companies to provide you with seamless visibility and response.

For more information about the Securonix Platform, schedule a demo at: www.securonix.com/request-a-demo.

2

Security Analytics and Operations Platform | Datasheet | 1121

