The easiest, most secure way to access infrastructure.
Only the open-source Teleport Access Plane consolidates connectivity, authentication, authorization, and audit into a single platform to improve security & agility.

Terminal
$ tsh login access-proxy Successfully issued short-lived certificates: SSH RDP Your role is [dev-team]. Access expires in 8 hours. $ tsh clusters staging production edge-network Your role is [dev-team]. Your access expires in 8 hours. $

Features & benefits
The Teleport Access Plane
By consolidating all aspects of infrastructure access into a single platform, Teleport reduces attack surface area, cuts operational overhead, easily enforces compliance, and improves productivity. The Teleport Access Plane replaces VPNs, shared credentials, and legacy privileged access management technologies, improving security and engineering productivity.

Teleport Connect
Securely connect to your global infrastructure regardless of network boundaries.

Teleport Authenticate
Identity-based access for humans, machines, and services.

Teleport Authorize
Implement fine-grained access controls for every employee and service accessing your infrastructure.

Teleport Audit
Achieve unprecedented visibility into infrastructure access and behavior so you can meet and exceed compliance objectives.

© Gravitational, Inc. | goteleport.com

Teleport Products
The Teleport Access Plane consists of 5 products that bring identity-based access deep into your infrastructure.

Server Access
SSH securely into Linux servers and smart devices with a complete audit trail.

Kubernetes Access
Access Kubernetes clusters securely with complete visibility into access and behavior.

Database Access
Prevent data exfiltration for SQL and NoSQL databases across multi-environments.

Desktop Access
Securely access Windows servers and desktops in multiple environments.

Application Access
Replace your VPN with zero-trust access for your internal applications and DevOps tools.

How It Works
Teleport is an identity-aware, multi-protocol access proxy which implements protocols such as SSH, RDP, HTTPS, Kubernetes API, MySQL, PostgreSQL and others. Teleport replaces shared credentials with short-lived certificates and is completely transparent to client-side tools. It is designed to work with everything in today's DevOps ecosystem.

Trusted by customers like
© Gravitational, Inc. | goteleport.com

