DATASHEET
OneTrust GRC
Built for How Businesses Operate Today
Evolving your governance, risk, and compliance program is an ongoing initiative that spans your entire organization and relationships. You need a modern solution that is simple to use across your business, and adapts to evolving needs, without sacrificing the familiar toolset of traditional GRC solutions.
OneTrust GRC is an integrated risk management platform that delivers a complete, measured view of your business's risk portfolio, provides clear insights to leadership, and optimizes the execution of routine tasks. Focusing on a user-friendly experience, organizations use OneTrust GRC's flexible framework to align business operations with standardized risk methodologies.

ANALYZE RISK
IT & Security Risk Incident Management Vendor Risk Management

REINFORCE GOVERNANCE
Policy Management Audit Management Awareness Training

SCALE COMPLIANCE
Regulatory Research Privacy Management Ethics & Compliance

ENHANCE VISIBILITY
Athena AI System Integrations Data Discovery

ANALYZE RISK AND UNDERSTAND BUSINESS IMPACT
IT & Security Risk Management Connect data, processes, assets, risks and controls. Design a flexible risk aggregation and scoring methodology. Vendor Risk Management Streamline vendor onboarding and mitigate risk exposure across your third-party vendors. Incident Management Integrate workstreams streamline response to ensure the proper action and documentation is taken.
SCALE COMPLIANCE WITH THE LATEST REGULATORY INSIGHTS
Regulatory Research Gain insights into the latest regulatory updates with summary guidance and detailed resources to inform your business. Privacy management Operationalize privacy-by-design with business ready solutions to manage and minimize personal information. Ethics & Compliance Assess your business' code of conduct, support appropriate channels of communications and prescriptive accountability.
REINFORCE GOVERNANCE FROM PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT TO TESTING
Policy Management Develop, distribute and measure corporate policies and attestation across the business. Awareness Training Engage and educate stakeholders with a dynamic catalog of SCORM compliant training courses. Audit Management Manage audits, controls, and workpapers. Document issues and develop action plans to improve performance in line with objectives.
ENHANCE VISIBILITY BEYOND TRADITIONAL GRC FUNCTIONS
DataDiscoveryTM Find IT systems and discover data within to enhance risk identification and map you risk universe. OneTrust AthenaTM AI Enhance traditional GRC functions with risk identification, control mapping, and mitigation recommendations. System Integrations Connect systems to a single source of truth to validate and trigger actions across the risk management lifecycle.
REQUEST A DEMO AT ONETRUSTGRC.COM
ATLANTA | LONDON | BANGALORE | MELBOURNE | SEATTLE | SAN FRANCISCO NEW YORK | SÃO PAULO | MUNICH | PARIS | HONG KONG | BANGKOK
OneTrust GRC enables risk, compliance and audit professionals to identify, measure, and remediate risk across their business to comply with internal rules and external regulations. With OneTrust GRC, companies can seamlessly integrate risk management into their day to day activities. OneTrust GRC is a part of OneTrust, the #1 most widely used privacy, security, and governance platform trusted by more than 6,000 customers and powered by 100 awarded patents.
To learn more, visit OneTrustGRC.com or connect on LinkedIn. Copyright © 2020 OneTrust LLC. All rights reserved. Proprietary & Confidential.

