How Is Making Cybersecurity Easier For Businesses And Harder For Criminals
"How do we stop it?"
That was the question Danny Jenkins was asked regarding the serious cybersecurity problems clients were experiencing.
Hearing the question repeated is what ultimately led Danny to found ThreatLocker, a global cybersecurity leader providing enterprise-level cybersecurity tools.
Danny's fascination with computer security began long before it was an issue. In high school, as a "short person," he used his computer skills as "muscle." "I'd write malware applications to delete people's homework," Danny said. In 1997, at 16 years old, he became an apprentice at what today is known as an MSP. Extremely technical and ambitious, he moved to Ireland and went to work at Kingspan, a multinational, $4-billion company, where he rose quickly to become the head of IT infrastructure by the time he was 21. Kingspan was acquiring companies nearly every month.
With malware coming into play as all the new companies joined together, Kingspan needed standards and secured infrastructure. "It became my responsibility to set and implement the standards," Danny said. "I implemented anti-spam, email filters, and corporate firewalls. I got a lot of exposure to security as I traveled around the world, implementing global networks."
At 24, he founded his first company, MXSweep, which provided cloud email security and was eventually acquired by FuseMail, a worldwide provider of outsourced email. In 2009, he started another email security company, which he slowly built up and sold. After selling his second company, he began consulting, which led him to two clients (one was the private school his kids attended) who needed help to stop cyber-attacks. Sami Jenkins, COO and co-founder of ThreatLocker, manages Lake Forrester Prep's IT department," Danny said. "She was looking after the school's IT, and they were constantly getting malware. The school was sending out emails with pornography, and the teachers were clicking on everything. It was a big problem."

A business in Australia also called for help with a ransomware case. "A small insurance company had been encrypted with ransomware -- every file, every claims database, every email, everything," Danny said. "They told me, `We paid the ransom, and we haven't gotten the data back. The key doesn't work. If we don't get the data back, this company is going out of business.'"
Danny worked on the problem for weeks. In the end, the CEO wanted to know how to stop it. "I told them the only way to stop it was to deny by default," Danny said. "While there were products out there that did this, they were all focused on the Department of Defense and big enterprises like Bank of America, not small businesses." Believing there must be a better way to stop the attacks on these smaller organizations, Danny looked everywhere for a solution, but it didn't exist. So, he decided to build it himself. "We deployed it in the school in this pre-concept stage," Danny said. "They went from having multiple pieces of malware every month to zero. Nothing got through."
However, Danny wasn't fully convinced it was a tangible business idea until May 2017, when one of the worst malware attacks in history occurred. "I wasn't fully committed until the Wanna Cry ransomware happened," Danny said. "It was really bad. Ambulances were turned away. Surgeries were canceled. Banks were shut down. But ThreatLocker blocked it."
At that moment, everything changed. "We said, `We need to get this into the hands of as many companies as we possibly can,'" Danny recalled. Going all in, he hit the gas in every direction. ThreatLocker took off.
Today, ThreatLocker has over 2000 partners and thousands of clients. Serving companies who are serious about security, they partner mostly with MSPs, such as Vector's Choice and Responsive Technology Partners, but also clients such as JetBlue and big financial companies. Their growth is staggering-- tripling revenue every 3 to 6 months since 2017.
ThreatLocker® is a global cybersecurity leader, providing enterprise-level cybersecurity tools to improve the security of servers and endpoints. ThreatLocker's combined Application Whitelisting, RingfencingTM, Storage Control and Privileged Access Management solutions are leading the cybersecurity market towards a more secure approach of blocking all unknown application vulnerabilities.
To learn more about ThreatLocker visit: www.threatlocker.com

