DATASHEET
OneTrust GRC Information Security Risk Management
OPERATIONALIZE YOUR INFOSEC PROGRAM IN LINE WITH LEADING STANDARDS AND FRAMEWORKS
Gain Real-Time Insights Across InfoSec and GRC Programs
Information Security is more critical than ever as businesses continue to shift additional data and operations to digital environments. The development, implementation, and maturity of an Information Security program requires collaboration across many stakeholders and initiatives. These initiatives include communicating guidelines through information security policies, implementing security controls, building a standardized risk management methodology, responding to security events, managing third-party vendors, and streamlining audits. IT & Security teams need a better way to manage these initiatives and activities in alignment with wider GRC activities across the organization.
Integrate and Automate InfoSec with the OneTrust GRC Platform
Whether you are an early-stage startup focused on obtaining security certifications, or a mature enterprise looking to operationalize IT & security risk management, OneTrust GRC offers a suite of solutions you can grow into. Our platform is powered by Athena AITM to deliver automation, flexible workflows to optimize collaboration, and built-in content developed by subject matter experts to get you up and running quickly. Robust dashboards and reports bring everything together to provide the data and visibility you need. Lastly, OneTrust is highly configurable, enabling endusers to make needed adjustments without IT or development resources ­ saving you time and money.

POLICY MANAGEMENT
Develop, Distribute, and Maintain InfoSec Policies
AUDIT MANAGEMENT
Streamline Compliance Audits
CERTIFICATION AUTOMATION
Reduce the time and cost of getting information security certifications

IT & SECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT
Measure and Mitigate Risk with Automated Treatment Workflows

THIRD-PARTY RISK MANAGEMENT
Manage Vendor Risk from Onboarding to Offboarding

INCIDENT MANAGEMENT
Prepare and Respond to Security Events

THIRD-PARTY RISK EXCHANGE
Reduce the Burden of Vendor Risk Assessments

SECURITY ASSURANCE AUTOMATION
Automate continuous compliance for transparency and control

DATA DISCOVERY
Automate Data Discovery & Classification

POLICY MANAGEMENT
· Centralize policy development with defined roles, workflow automation, and integrations with business applications like Microsoft Word. · Run attestation campaigns across all stakeholders within your organization, report on attestation status, and automate reminders. · Automate the periodic review cycle to ensure policies, standards, and procedures stay up to date. Easily report on compliance coverage.
IT & SECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT
· Inventory and connect Your IT ecosystem, by relating assets, risks, controls, and integrate with risk adjacent systems. · Measure and monitor risk with flexible risk scoring and aggregation methodologies. Expedite risk treatment plans with a guided workflow. · Inform decision-making with role-based reports and dashboards for executives, risk managers, and risk owners.
THIRD-PARTY RISK MANAGEMENT
· Track third-party data flows and critical asset access, with detailed data logs to identify systems and user access. · Automate workflows to streamline the third-party lifecycle, from onboarding to risk mitigation and offboarding. · Track vendor controls with issue and exception management and generate audit-ready reports and dashboards.
THIRD-PARTY RISK EXCHANGE
· View `Trust Profiles' on vendors, including security, privacy, and compliance information to help you tier and prioritize. · Save time reviewing assessments with automated risk analytics & control gaps across 18 risk domains. · Get updates when a vendor's security posture changes, without having to conduct a reassessment.
INCIDENT MANAGEMENT
· Integrate flexible intake and reporting channels (portal, web form, email, system connectors & more). · Create a response playbook and identify the scope of impact with linked assets, process, and a detailed audit log. · Attach evidence, schedule post-incident review, and propose policy updates based on documented findings.
AUDIT MANAGEMENT
· Scope audits and perform fieldwork and testing in templatized workpapers that guide and standardize documentation. · Schedule recurring evidence requests, automatically notify respective owners, and attach evidence provided by owners to respective controls. · Report on control status from planned, pending, and implemented, as well as status of control testing and effectiveness.
DATA DISCOVERY
· Automate information classification and data discovery across your entire IT infrastructure with deep scans and advanced ML-based classification. · Discover and classify all data types across cloud, on-premises, and legacy systems in unstructured file shares, structured databases, Big Data · Reduce the cost of controls by identifying high-risk areas and addressing them by enforcing controls like encryption, masking, and access.
CERTIFICATION AUTOMATION
· Quickly scope your certification requirements with a survey built by a team of in-house information security auditors. · Automatically generate policies, procedures, controls, and evidence required based on your project scope, and implement them with built-in guidance. · Track your progress towards audit readiness with dashboards and collaborate with auditors directly in the platform to manage evidence requests.
SECURITY ASSURANCE AUTOMATION
· Prove your security controls are in place by automating evidence collection through pre-built integrations or via open API. · Ensure your cloud and enterprise apps are always configured securely with built-in security posture alerts. Get automatic alerts when issues arise. · Easily capture and save evidence screenshots anywhere on the browser in a few clicks with the Tugboat Logic Extension for Chrome.
REQUEST A DEMO AT ONETRUSTGRC.COM
ATLANTA | BANGALORE | HONG KONG | LONDON | MELBOURNE MUNICH | NEW YORK | SAN FRANCISCO | SÃO PAULO
OneTrust is the #1 most widely used privacy, security and trust technology platform used by more than 10,000 companies to comply with the CCPA, GDPR, ISO27001 and hundreds of the world's privacy and security laws. OneTrust's primary software offerings include OneTrust Privacy Management , OneTrust PreferenceChoiceTM consent and preference management, OneTrust VendorpediaTM third-party risk management and OneTrust GRC integrated risk management. To learn more, visit OneTrust.com or
connect on LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook. Copyright © 2021 OneTrust LLC. All rights reserved. Proprietary & Confidential.

