SOLUTION BRIEF
Complete Email Security with INKY Internal Mail Protection
INKY Internal Mail Protection protects your organization's internal email traffic. Utilizing the core functionalities of INKY Phish Fence, Internal Mail Protection provides robust detection and remediation capabilities for email security threats originating within the organization.
Internal Sender Profiling & Social Graphing
As your users send mail internally, INKY builds dynamic `profiles' or `behavior models' of the originating sender. As the models grow, INKY uses anomaly detection techniques to filter out and block impersonation attempts originating from outside your organization. INKY observes the incoming mail and builds a profile of characteristics, for example:
1. What email addresses are typically used by the sender? 2. What friendly name is normally displayed (Tyler D, vs. Tyler Durden)? 3. Where the user sends mail from (home/office/traveling)? 4. What devices a user sends mail from (mobile device, traditional PC, or tablet)? 5. What email client is used (Outlook for the PC, Apple Mail client for iPad/iPhone, or Gmail app)?
Internal Mail Remediation
Remediation Access within INKY allows administrators to remove messages from their end-user's Office 365 mailboxes for emails originating outside their organization. With Internal Mail Protection by INKY, admins now have the capability not only to remove external but internal emails as well. This process is done from the same INKY Dashboard that admins currently use and ensures they have the tools needed to protect against malicious lateral movement within an internal email infrastructure.
inky.com

SOLUTION BRIEF
Active Link Protection
INKY's link protection is NOT your traditional Real Time Blackhole List (RBL)/link checker. On a daily basis, INKY catches real-time targeted zero-day threats NOT reported to the RBLs. INKY analyzes each link an internal recipient clicks, in real time, not afterward like a TRAP or API solution, but right away and every time thereafter. INKY identifies and filters out confusable domains, misleading links, cross-site (XSS) URL's, and malicious redirects. And using technology developed for INKY's brand impersonation models, Internal Link Protection knows where an email link should be taking a user as well as where it is actually trying to take the user. INKY displays the real destination of the URL link in a safe preview screenshot, isolating the user from any malicious web page.
User-Friendly Warning Banners
INKY's unique HTML-based warning banners are a key visual feature for users of the software. After INKY analyzes messages, employees receive real-time feedback as to what, if anything is fraudulent about the message. Because the banners are HTML-based, they display properly on any email client or platform, including a traditional PC with Outlook, an Apple or Android App, or any of the Web-based clients. Banners are color-coded to empower users, making it simple to determine the potential threat level of delivered messages:
Grey Banner: (safe) INKY did not find anything unusual or suspicious about the message. The banner also displays the email sender's address and notes if the email is internal (within an organization) or external. Yellow Banner: (caution) INKY found something unusual about the email message. It is not necessarily dangerous but has something a user should be aware of. For example, INKY displays a yellow banner for an email from a first-time sender. An email that is out of the ordinary like a spear-phishing email would receive a yellow banner. Red Banner: (danger) A red danger banner indicated INKY thinks the message is suspicious and is likely to be phishing or otherwise dangerous. Admins have the option to deliver these messages or send them to the quarantine folder. The "Report This Email" link in each INKY banner allows end-users to report spam, phish, and other problematic emails from any endpoint device.
inky.com

