Are your risk, compliance, and audit projects taking up too much of your time?
See how you can get audits done in half the time at half the cost

KCM GRC Platform
You have challenging compliance requirements, not enough time to get audits done, and keeping up with risk assessments is a continuous problem. The KCM GRC Platform helps you get audits done in half the time, is easy to use, and is surprisingly affordable.
Manage and Automate Compliance and Audit Cycles Reduce the time you need to satisfy requirements to meet compliance goals with pre-built requirements templates and control guidance suggestions for the most widely used regulations.
Centralize Policy Distribution and Tracking Save time when you manage distribution of policies and track attestation through campaigns.
Identify, Respond, and Monitor Your Risk Simplify risk initiatives with an easy-to-use wizard with risk workflow based on the well-recognized NIST 800-30.
Efficiently Manage Third-Party Vendor Risk Easily prequalify, assess, and conduct remediation to continually monitor and keep track of your vendors' risk requirements.

Audits Done. Half The Time.

Finally, an affordable and simple GRC platform
Most organizations leverage spreadsheets, documents and/or collaboration portals, as well as email threads and individual calendars to manage their GRC initiatives. This is inefficient, error prone, costly, and a risk in itself.
GRC is primarily a matter of "people and processes" and tools come second. However, old-school GRC offerings require many months of implementation and high consulting hours to stand up. KCM GRC has a simple, intuitive user interface, easy to understand workflows, a short learning curve, and will be fully functional in a matter of days. KCM GRC was developed to save you the maximum amount of time getting GRC done.
The KCM GRC platform is offered in different packages to meet the needs of all organizations and is available with the following modules to choose from:

 Compliance Management  Policy Management

 Risk Management  Vendor Risk Management

Compliance Management
Managing Audits and Compliance Today, most organizations are required to follow some type of regulation or follow industry best practices. Managing compliance for one regulation or framework is time consuming. Having multiple regulations becomes impractical to manage without automation. KCM GRC effectively reduces the time you need to satisfy all requirements necessary to meet compliance goals, leading to significantly less time and money spent dealing with compliance and audits.
Quick Implementation with Requirements Templates and Control Guidance Using the built-in quick setup capability, KCM GRC can have you on your way to improved compliance quickly. KCM includes pre-built requirements templates for the most widely used regulatory frameworks. The control guidance feature provides suggestions in-platform to help you create adequate controls to meet your specific scopes and requirements.
Risk Management
Simplified Risk Management Workflow With an intuitive interface and wizards,getting insight into your organization's risk just became easier. Our risk management workflow is simple: identify the risk, respond to the risk and monitor the risk. The KCM risk workflow is based on the well-recognized NIST 800-30.
Easy Risk Identification Already working with spreadsheets? Import them into the risk register or manually create unique organizational risks. The risk module integrates with the compliance module by allowing compliance or audit gaps to be escalated to the risk register.
Timely Risk Response You can link existing controls from the repositories you've created to leverage ongoing risk reduction initiatives. Tie implementation of controls and treatment scores to determine your residual risk and ensure the appropriate personnel are engaged and informed with their task assignments and reminders.
Ongoing Risk Monitoring Leverage KCM to determine ongoing effectiveness. You can schedule ongoing tasks to ensure controls are being assessed and get insights into risks with the risk dashboard. With KCM, you can simplify and streamline your risk initiatives resulting in better visibility and increased efficiency.

Policy Management
Centralized Policy Distribution and Tracking KCM allows you to upload a finalized policy, select a targeted list of users, and generate user reports to satisfy compliance requirements. You can set up policy campaigns to help manage policy distribution, reminders, and user acknowledgement.
Automated Policy Management Workflow Automate your policy management workflow with automated notifications, tasks, and reminders prompted by any event you like, such as an upcoming review date.
Vendor Risk Management
Centralized Vendor Risk Management KCM's Vendor Risk Management module helps you centralize your process to manage your third-party vendor security risk requirements. With a single pane of glass view, you get continuous visibility into your vendors' controls and evidence libraries and can keep track of their compliance requirements, services they provide, and what data they have access to in one centralized repository.
Vet, Manage, and Monitor Vendor Risk Prequalify risk, assess your vendors, and conduct remediation to continually monitor risk associated with your vendors. You can also escalate areas of risk to the risk register to increase visibility of vendor risk. Additionally, KCM makes it easy to manage the entire lifecycle of your vendors from onboarding to offboarding to ensure that organizations are compliant and don't retain your data once the relationship has ended.
Automated Workflows for Requirements, Remediation, and Mitigation Streamline your vendor assessment process with KCM's automated workflow and campaigns. You can easily design an efficient workflow to conduct due-diligence activities and track and monitor tasks assigned to your vendors to ensure accountability. Easily set issue status and priorities based on your organization's security requirements and build repeatable processes to help automate your ongoing vendor assessments.
Managed Vendor Assessment Templates With no-cost vendor access, your vendors can get started quickly with your assessment process. Ensure standard and consistent vendor assessments with pre-built and customizable questionnaire templates. You have the ability to generate assessments in HTML or CSV, depending on your preferred workflow. You can upload your own custom templates or leverage our managed templates and select from BITS SIG, CSA CAIQ, HECVAT and more.

See how you can minimize the time associated with your risk, compliance, and audit projects and get audits done in half the time at half the cost
www.KnowBe4.com/kcm

KnowBe4, Inc. | 33 N Garden Ave, Suite 1200, Clearwater, FL 33755 | Tel: 855-KNOWBE4 (566-9234) | www.KnowBe4.com | Email: Sales@KnowBe4.com
 2020 KnowBe4, Inc. All rights reserved. Other product and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks and/or registered trademarks of their respective companies.

V072720

