myCYPR for
Risk Management
Third-party risk is exponentially rising as supply chains become increasingly complex and ransomware attacks grow more prevalent. Your cybersecurity team is fighting an uphill battle to manage the risk presented by third parties without sacrificing operational efficiency. Despite the emerging solution of the past five years, the risk presented by third parties has continued to escalate, with 60% of security incidents in 2022 projected to stem from third parties. Prevention-based response systems are now critical for effectively mitigating risk so that you can stop a breach before it happens.
Solutions
Third-Party Risk Management
Operational Maturity
Merger & Acquisition
myCYPR

How It Works
myCYPR Platform
We support your risk management program through a combination of first & third-party risk, and compliance management in one powerful tool. myCYPR gives you the power to customize a comprehensive risk management solution with a choice of three tiers of data collection, tailored to your organization's unique budget and risk management needs.
Better Data
Our data is better because we collect more, giving you the most accurate risk score. Other solutions only use open-source intelligence for data collection and security scores. While valuable, open-source intelligence alone does not capture the full scope of risk facing an organization. myCYPR digs deeper with guided Self-Assessment Questionnaires (SAQs) and in-depth Next Generation Security Assessments.
Security Expertise
Our seasoned security team is here to be an extension of yours. We work with your team directly to examine your risk data and validate your security posture. Our assessment and scoring methodologies have proven to be effective for twenty years.

6315 Hillside Court, STE J Columbia, MD 21046

info@anchortechnologies.com www.mycypr.com

410.295.7601 866.841.0777

The Data Matters

Good
The current industry standard builds risk scores based only on opensource intelligence, which is valuable, but only provides a narrow view of risk facing an organization. On par with the industry, myCYPR offers data collection from opensource intelligence as basis for our first tier of risk scores.

Better
A guided Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) focuses on 25 key areas of cybersecurity posture common standards, including NIST and CIS. myCYPR allows evidence to be uploaded alongside SAQ responses, validating scores for higher accuracy. Invite vendors to participate in SAQs for increased third-party visibility.

Best
A Next Generation Security Assessment identifies risk through detailed gap analysis mappings, comprehensive internal and external vulnerability assessments, an application risk assessment and detailed remediation recommendations. The full myCYPR scoring methodology provides the most insight to your security posture.

Features
All risk ratings are not created equal. myCYPR leads the industry with the most comprehensive features for total risk management, including:
Continuous Risk Monitoring
Executive-level Reporting
Vendor Validation
Vulnerability & Remediation Tracking
Controls Alignment for Compliance myCYPR Dashboard Access & Real Time Visualization 3 Data Choices to Establish Risk Scores
47 Monitored Risk Vectors 10K Avg Data Points Collected per Score
Risk Scores for Primary Organizations & Vendors

myCYPR is Powered by Anchor Technologies
myCYPR is powered by Anchor Technologies. Founded in 2002 with a total focus on cybersecurity, Anchor Technologies proudly boasts a seasoned advisory services team powering the myCYPR solution. Effective risk management requires more than an advisor. With myCYPR, you work directly with an experienced security consultant who will extensively examine your risk data and validate your security posture. With experience serving a breadth of industries and performing engagements in breach response, penetration testing, and cyber maturity analysis, our security consultants have tailored comprehensive cybersecurity strategies for hundreds of companies.
The myCYPR Difference
We collect more data so you can be confident in your risk is managed.
One tool for first & third-party risk, and compliance management
Addresses shortcomings to current risk management practices
Industry's most comprehensive risk management solution
Flexible choice of data and pricing that fit your business
More data collection for accurate risk scoring

6315 Hillside Court, STE J Columbia, MD 21046

info@anchortechnologies.com www.mycypr.com

410.295.7601 866.841.0777

