Network Computing
Innovative Platforms for Next Generation Network Infrastructure

Volume 22.1

www.lannerinc.com

2

www.lannerinc.com

Lanner's Leadership in Network Appliance
Cloud computing and high-speed mobile communications networks have exponentially increased the Internet traffic, placing enormous workload demands onto network appliances. Such network demand is attracting increasing numbers of sophisticated and well-prepared malware, viruses, and other information security risks; service providers and infrastructure owners are in need of innovative, next-generation platforms with highperformance and high-throughput processors for implementing hardware security measures that could carry out deep packet inspection and virus scanning in a thorough and swift manner.
Lanner has been the leader in the rapid-growing information security industry for over three decades and is dedicated to supplying innovative and next-generation hardware platforms with advanced architectures. According to Gartner Magic Quadrants, 60% of all 46 companies supplying Enterprise Network Firewalls, UTM, Wired/Wireless LAN, WAN optimization and Application Delivery use hardware made by Lanner. Lanner had thus far shipped over 2 million networking appliances, reaching a significant corporate milestone. Such demand demonstrates Lanner's strength and commitment to designing superior network platforms in the field.
With SD-WAN becoming the most anticipated WAN Services today, Lanner's desktop network platforms have been successfully deployed in more than 11 of the 20 industry-leading SD-WAN solution providers, according to the latest Gartner's Magic Quadrant report on WAN Edge Infrastructure. With multiple success stories showing Lanner appliances' capabilities in various deployment settings, Lanner desktop network platforms are proved to be highly customizable for not only meeting customer demands in enterprise networking hardware but also for building a better network platform for the businesses they serve, greatly accelerating the time-to-market and reducing time needed for validation.
As the industry requires higher quality, more advanced and more powerful network appliances, we will continue our expertise, and will support our clients and partners in full dedication so we can all grow together.
Jeans Tseng
CTO
www.lannerinc.com 3

About Lanner
Lanner Electronics Inc. (TAIEX 6245) is a world-leading hardware provider in design, engineering, and manufacturing services for advanced network appliances and rugged industrial computers. With 33-year experiences, Lanner provides reliable and cost-effective computing platforms with high quality and performance. Today, Lanner has a large and dynamic manpower with approximately 1,000 well-experienced employees worldwide with the headquarters in Taipei, Taiwan and subsidiaries in the US, Canada, China and Europe.

Global Manufacturing Capabilities
Taipei, Taiwan · Area 30,000 m² · 3 x SMT, DIP and assembly lines · Production capacity:
30,000 system units/month
Certifications · ISO 26262:2021 · ISO 9001:2008 · ISO 14001:2004 · ISO 28000:2007 · QC 080000:2012 · OHSAS 18001:2007 · TL 9000:R5.5 · ISO 27001:2013

Service Capabilities · Custom design and production in board,
chassis and system · High mix low volume manufacturing · Quality assurance services · Global order fulfillment services
Beijing and Dongguang, China · Area 15,200 m² · 5 x Assembly lines · Production capacity:
8,000 system units/month

Contents
About Lanner4 Why Lanner?5 Design and Manufacturing Services6 Desktop Network Appliances 9 Rackmount Network Appliances13 Advanced Network Platforms 24

4

www.lannerinc.com

Why Lanner?
Lanner has the leading technological advantages and long-established manufacturing processes to service clients with customized solutions for mission-critical applications. Lanner possesses well-managed manufacturing lines, and is capable of customizing both hardware and software parts of a platform, including chassis, dimensions, modular/fixed ports, BIOS, IPMI, acceleration cards, NIC modules, and required certifications.
Strong Allies
Lanner's membership in industrial-leading alliances enables us to provide the latest technology, and extend your product lifecycles.
Intel® Lanner is an Associate Member of the Intel® Network Builders Partner, a community of SDN/NFV developers, system integrators, OEMs and solution providers committed to the development of modular, standards-based solutions on Intel® technologies.
AMD® Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. is an American multinational semiconductor company that develops computer processors and related technologies for business and consumer markets.
American Megatrends Inc. (AMI®) AMI creates and manufactures key hardware and software solutions for the global computer marketplace, providing the highest quality and compatibility necessary to build today's advanced computing systems.
NXP Semiconductors N.V. NXP Semiconductors N.V. is the world leader in secure connectivity solutions for embedded applications. NXP is driving innovation in the secure connected vehicle, end-to-end security and privacy and smart connected solutions markets.
NVIDIA Technologies NVIDIA is a computing platform company, innovating at the intersection of graphics, HPC, and AI. The company specializes in the manufacture of graphics-processor technologies for workstations, desktop computers, and mobile devices.
Marvell® Networks Lanner's Network Processing Appliance are built with performance-boosting and lowpowered RISC processors from Marvell® for specified mission-critical applications like IPS, VPN and virus scanning.
Broadcom® Broadcom® is a global innovator and leader in semiconductor solutions for wired and wireless communications. Lanner offer products with processors from Broadcom.
Infineon Technologies Infineon Technologies AG, a Germany-based designer, developer and manufacturer of semiconductors and related system solutions, operates through four segments: Automotive, Industrial Power Control, Power Management & Multimarket, and Chip Card & Security.
www.lannerinc.com 5

Design and Manufacturing Services
Wide Customization Options
Lanner supplies customized hardware solutions for mission-critical applications with managed manufacturing process thanks to our in-house design and manufacturing services.

x86AARMrchNiteetcwtuorrek Service

Advanced Networking Features · Copper and fiber at 10/25/40/100 GbE · Future-proof scalability with NIC modules · Advanced LAN bypass · Network throughput acceleration · Hardware-assisted cryptographic engine · Built-in hardware security · Remote manageability · Enhanced PoE power management
Best-In-Class Port Density Lanner has engineered unprecedented port density for our rackmount network appliances. Utilizing our modular or blade technology, each platform can be configured to your optimal requirements.

Engineered for Reliable Operation With redundant power sources, hot-swappable fans and LAN bypass, these network appliances will continue to support your network even when the unexpected occur.
The Latest and Fastest Processors The latest Intel® Xeon®, CoreTM, Celeron®, AtomTM and AMD EPYCTM processors perform network security functions at optimal throughput while at low power. Lanner also designs with NXP® and Broadcom® processors to provide RISC based network platforms.

Electronic Engineering
Choose from an array of board and platform level components to create the perfect appliance or solution based on your application requirements. Lanner's strategic partnerships allow us to incorporate the latest technology in the industry to provide customers with a richer palette of options.
66 wwwww.lawn.nlaenrinec.rcionmc.com

Mechanical Engineering
Lanner's engineers are wellversed in tackling the multitude of design issues faced on the board and mechanical level including ventilation, peripherals, and more. Rigorously tested, Lanner products can withstand a broad range of environmental parameters to guarantee product robustness in an array of applications.

Software Engineering
Implement the necessary BIOS or firmware into your platforms with the help of Lanner's software team.
Our software development expertise can create and customize the necessary BIOS, firmware, drivers and API level, to ensure seamless communication between hardware and application software.

Lanner's Complete Range of Network Appliances
Lanner possesses a wide range of network appliances including budget desktop firewalls with onboard processors, and also advanced hybrid appliances with multiple processors, expansion options, and reassuring redundancy features. Lanner offers both x86 and RISC appliances that can come with a range of acceleration cards and expansion modules to form the perfect appliance.

Operation Security

Information Security

Communication Security

Prototyping
During the prototype stage, Lanner can help you with testing guidelines and BIOS tuning to maximize the performance of your appliance. Lanner has a wide range of standard appliances that can speed up your product development and bring your product to the market faster.

Product Identity Service
Take advantage of Lanner's product identify service. Lanner can customize the identity of your products, everything from industrial design of 2D and 3D faceplates to custom packaging and labeling. This ensures that your product accurately promotes your brand awareness and leaves a lasting impression with your customers.

Manufacturing
Lanner owns and operates its own in-house state-of-the-art SMT, DIP, assembly and testing facilities. By maintaining control of the entire manufacturing process, we ensure the integrity of your end product through our tight production procedures, integrated quality assurance programs and rigorous design quality.
www.lannerinc.com 7

Global Order Fulfillment and RMA
Worldwide Offices and RMA Centers With our presence in various continents, we are able to serve our clients worldwide.

· Toronto · Fremont

· The Hague

· St. Petersburg

· Tel Aviv

· Tokyo · Beijing
· Taipei

· Chennai

A Complete Service After we have designed and manufactured your products, we install the required software and ship directly to your customers in your branded packages. Drop shipments can be arranged from our logistics centers worldwide.
Our service allows you to focus on your core competency of software development for the information security industry. We take care of the hardware design, manufacturing, logistics and service. That's our core competency.

Quality Control
Lanner's strict and ISO 9001-certified quality testing procedures have been adjusted to comply with standards. Also, as part of our green management plan, initiated early 2006, all Lanner products meet RoHS certification requirements.

Logistics
Successful logistics are reinforced by efficient procedures. Lanner clients' orders can be tracked through the production process by specific numbers allowing for routine project updates. Order traceability can guarantee consistency and quality.

Technical Support
Lanner provides full RMA service and technical support to fulfill customer service. For the systems built with Intel® platforms, we offer up to 7-year lifecycle support. Longer lifecycle support can also be arranged by jointly planned inventories.

8

www.lannerinc.com

IT Security
Desktop Network Appliances

NCA-1040
Intel Atom X6413E/N6415 CPU with 4 GbE RJ45 Ports

NCA-1515
Intel Denverton CPU with 6x GbE RJ45, 2x GbE SFP Ports

NCA-1516
Intel Denverton-R CPU 6 GbE RJ45 (w/ 2 PoE+ Option) 2 10GbE SFP+ Ports

NCA-1513
Intel Denverton CPU with 6 or 4 GbE RJ45 or 4 GbE RJ45 & 2 SFP Ports

NCA-1510
Intel Denverton CPU with 4 GbE RJ45, 2 GbE SFP Ports & Fanless Design

Low-footprint Intel CPU Engine
To addresses the demand for building efficient and secured network edge, Lanner adopts the latest generation of Intel® AtomTM and Celeron® processors to supply entry security gateway/UTM/ SD-WAN/uCPE for SMBs or branch networks.
Intel QuickAssist Technology
This hardware-assisted security engine is not only designed to optimize the cryptographic and data compression applications, but also reserves processor cycles for critical application processing while improving overall system performance.
Intel Virtualization Technology (Intel VT)
Intel® VT provides hardware assist to the virtualization software, reducing its size, cost, and complexity; it is part of Lanner's value-added software packages intended for optimizing the performance, security, agility and manageability. Intel® Virtualization Technology such as VT-x, VT-d and SR-IOV are baked into Lanner appliances.

Wireless RF Connectivity
Lanner desktop appliances feature Wifi concurrent, dual LTE, expansion slots for Wi-Fi/5G/LTE/Wifi6 RF modules and external antenna for wireless network connectivity.
Fanless Design
System fans, considered one of the most errorprone components, are removed from appliances while at the same time allowing heat dissipation off the top of the corrugated aluminum enclosure.
Versatile Mounting Kits
For mounting flexibility, Lanner desktop appliances are compatible with wallmount or rackmount options for suitable installation in any environment setting.
www.lannerinc.com 9

Desktop Network Appliances

Feature Form Factor

Description

Processor Options

Platform BIOS

CPU Socket Chipset Security Acceleration

Technology System Memory Max. Capacity
Socket

NCA-1040
Desktop Intel® Atom X6413E/N6415 (Elkhart Lake) onboard SoC N/A AMI SPI Flash BIOS
DDR4 3200 MHz SODIMM
32 GB 1 x 260-pin SODIMM

Networking LOM I/O Interface Storage

Ethernet Ports
Bypass NIC Module Slot I/O Interface OPMA Slot Reset Button LED Power Button Console USB LCD Module Display Power Input HDD/SSD Support
Onboard Storage PCIe

Expansion

mini-PCIe

4 x GbE RJ45 Intel® i210
N/A N/A N/A N/A 1 Power/Status/Storage/M.2/Mini PCIe 1 1 x RJ-45 1 x USB 3.0 N/A 1 x Display Port 1 x DC Jack With Lock N/A
1 x M.2 (SATA)
N/A 1 x Mini-PCIe (PCIe/USB2.0) 1 x M.2 (PCIe/USB 3.0) 2x Nano SIM

Miscellaneous Cooling

Watchdog Internal RTC with Li Battery TPM Processor System

Yes Yes N/A Passisve CPU heatsink Fanless

Environmental Parameters

Temperature Humidity (RH)

System Dimensions
Package Dimensions
Power

(WxHxD) Weight (WxHxD) Weight Type / Watts Input

Approvals and Compliance

10 www.lannerinc.com

0~40ºC Operating -40~70ºC Non-Operating 5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 183 x 32 x 168 mm 0.9 kg
60W Power Adapter AC 100~240V @50~60Hz, 12V/5A RoHS, CE/FCC Class B, UL, VCCI, UKCA

Desktop

NCA-1513

Intel® Atom® C3000 (Denverton)

onboard SoC Intel® QuickAssist Technology (by SKU) AMI SPI Flash BIOS DDR4 2133/1866 MHz ECC/Non-ECC SODIMM (By SKU) 16 GB 1 x 260-pin SODIMM
4 x GbE RJ45 Intel® SoC Integrated MAC 2 x GbE RJ45 Intel® i210AT or i211AT (by SKU 2x GbE SFP Intel® i210-IS(by SKU)
2 pair Gen3 (By SKU) N/A N/A N/A 1
Power/Status/Storage
1 1 x RJ-45 2 x USB 2.0 or 2 x USB 3.0 (by SKU) N/A N/A 1 x DC Jack 1 x 2.5" Bay (Optional)

1 x EMMC 8GB

N/A

1 x Mini-PCIe (PCIe/USB2.0), 1 x M.2 2280/2242 (SATA3.0), 1x M.2 3042 (USB3.0), 1 x Nano SIM for M.2

Yes Yes Yes Passisve CPU heatsink
1 x Cooling Fan w/ Smart Fan
0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating
5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 231 x 44 x 200 mm 1.2 kg 358 x 135 x 290 mm 2.75 kg 40W Power Adapter AC 100~240V @50~60Hz, 1.7A
RoHS, CE/FCC Class B, UL

Fanless Desktop

NCA-1510

Intel® AtomTM C3000 (Denverton)

onboard SoC Intel QuickAssist Technology AMI SPI Flash BIOS

DDR4 2133 MHz ECC/Non-ECC SODIMM

16 GB 1 x 260-pin SODIMM

4 x GbE RJ45 Intel® SoC Integrated MAC 2 x GbE RJ45 or SFP Intel® i210 (By SKU)

1 pair Gen3 (By SKU) N/A N/A N/A 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 1 x Mini USB 2 x USB 2.0 N/A N/A 1 x DC Jack 1 x 2.5" Bay (Optional)
1 x EMMC 8GB
N/A

1 x Mini-PCIe (PCIe) 1 x M.2 (USB2.0/PCIe) 1 x Nano SIM

Yes Yes Yes Passive CPU heatsink
Fanless
0~50ºC Operating (SKU A/B/C) 0~40ºC Operating (SKU D) -20~70ºC Non-Operating 5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 231 x 44 x 200 mm 1.2 kg 325 x 305 x 120 mm 2.2 kg 36W or 60W Power Adapter (By SKU) AC 100~240V @50~60 Hz
RoHS, CE/FCC Class B, UL

Desktop

NCA-1515

Desktop

NCA-1516

Intel® Atom® C3000 (Denverton)

Intel® Atom® C3000 (Denverton)

onboard SoC Intel QuickAssist Technology AMI SPI Flash BIOS

onboard SoC Intel QuickAssist Technology AMI SPI Flash BIOS

DDR4 2400/2133/1866 MHz ECC/Non-ECC SODIMM (By SKU) DDR4 2400/2133/1866 MHz ECC/Non-ECC SODIMM (By SKU)

32 GB 2 x 260-pin SODIMM
4 x GbE RJ45 Intel® SoC Integrated MAC 2 x GbE RJ45 Intel® i350 and (by SKU) 2 x GbE SFP Intel® i350 (by SKU)
1 pair Gen3 (By SKU) N/A 1 x RJ45 (By SKU) Yes 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 1 x RJ-45 2 x USB 2.0 N/A N/A 1 x DC Jack 1 x 2.5" Bay (Optional)

64 GB 2 x 260-pin SODIMM
4 x GbE RJ45 Intel® i350 2 x GbE RJ45 Marvell 88E1543 2 x SFP+ SoC Integrated MAC
N/A N/A N/A N/A 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 1 x RJ-45 2 x USB 3.0 N/A N/A 2 x DC Jack (Optional 2nd DC Jack) N/A

1 x EMMC 8GB N/A 2 x Mini-PCIe (PCIe/USB2.0) 1 x M.2 2242 B Key (USB3.0) 2 x Nano SIM for M.2
Yes Yes Yes Passive CPU Heatsink 1 x Cooling Fan w/ Smart Fan

1 x EMMC 8GB (By Request)
N/A 1 x Mini-PCIe (PCIe/USB2.0) 1x M.2 3052/3580 B Key (PCIe/USB 3.0) 1x M.2 3042 B Key (USB 3.0) 1x M.2 2242 B Key (SATA) 2 x Nano SIM Yes
Yes
Yes
Passive CPU Heatsink 2 x Cooling Fans w/ Smart Fan or Fanless (By Request)

0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating

0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating

5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 231 x 44 x 200 mm 1.2 kg 358 x 290 x 135 mm 2.75 kg 36W or 60W Power Adapter (By SKU)
AC 100~240V @50~60 Hz

5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 231 x 44 x 200 mm 1.2 kg 358 x 290 x 135 mm 2.75 kg 60W Power Adapter
AC 100~240V @50~60 Hz

RoHS, CE/FCC Class A, UL

RoHS, CE/FCC Class B, UL

www.lannerinc.com 11

Security Package

Security Inside Out
Lanner can be counted on for offering hardware solutions built with the most advanced hardware-based and hardware-assisted security measures and enhancements. These added benefits and values include hardware security (i.e. TPM), security acceleration (i.e. Intel® QAT), BIOS security (i.e. BootGuard), Intel® SGX, ISO 27001:2013, secure BMC and more.

Hardware Security
FIPS Compliant Kensington Lock Intrusion Detection TPM 2.0

Security Acceleration
Intel QAT Marvell Nitrox Security Processor AMD Crypto Co-Processor Mellanox InnovaTM IPsec

BIOS Security
BootGuard Secure Boot Secure Flash

Security Enhancement
Intel SGX Intel SECL-DC Intel SDO AMD SME AMD SEV
12 www.lannerinc.com

ISO 27001:2013
Certified Information Security Management

Secure BMC
Secure Access Control Enhanced 2048-bit SSL

IT Security
Rackmount Network Appliances

NCA-2510/NCA-2512
Intel® Denverton CPU 5 GbE RJ45 + 4 SFP+, 1 NIC Slot, 2 PSUs (NCA-2512)

NCA-5710
Intel® Skylake-SP/Cascade Lake-SP CPU Onboard IPMI Chip, 4 10G SFP+, 4 NIC Slots

NCA-2513
Intel® AtomTM C3000 2~8 Cores (Denverton-R) 6x GbE RJ45 or 8x GbE RJ45 (By SKU)

NCA-6210
Intel® Skylake-SP/Cascade Lake-SP CPU 8 NIC Slots + 20 288-pin DIMM

· Support Intel Xeon/Core CPUs

· IPMI

· Redundant Power

· Modular Fans

Intel® CoreTM and Xeon® CPU
Lanner rackmount appliances feature the latest server-grade Intel® CoreTM and Xeon® CPUs optimized to offer high throughputs and function as next-gen firewalls deployed in the enterprise network and cloud infrastructures.
Scalable Modules and Cards
Scale the performance and throughputs up for your network appliances with over 20 different copper, fiber bypass Ethernet modules including 1/10/40/50/100GbE LAN options, and also the add-on accelerator cards providing high performance tunneling and encryption.
High Availability Design
To ensure the 24/7 non-stop network operation, Lanner appliances support high availability design including dual management ports, hot-swappable cooling fans and redundant power supplies.
Trusted Platform Module
Our appliances support Trusted Platform Module (TPM) that provides the integrated cryptographic keys and secure boot to protect the hardware from unauthorized accesses.

AMD EPYCTM 7000/3000 Series CPU
With the flexibility to choose from 8 to 32 cores, AMD EPYCTM enables you to deploy the right hardware platforms to meet your workload needs from virtualized infrastructure to large-scale big-data and analytics platforms and legacy line-of-business applications.
BMC Remote Manageability
Lanner provides SSL encrypted BMC add-on card and custom SDK to remotely configure, monitor, reboot and shut down your appliances.
Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK)
Lanner appliances support Intel DPDK that manages communication workload consolidation to accelerate network packet processing performance by 3 to 4 times.
Intel Virtualization Technology
Lanner appliances come with Intel® VT (VT-x, VT-d and SR-IOV) built in, providing hardware assist to the virtualization software, reducing its size, cost, and complexity and optimizing performance, security, agility and manageability.
www.lannerinc.com 13

Rackmount Network Appliances

Feature Form Factor

Description

Processor Options

Platform

CPU Socket Chipset

Security Acceleration

BIOS

Technology

System Memory Max. Capacity

Socket

Networking LOM
I/O Interface
Storage Expansion Miscellaneous Cooling

Ethernet Ports
Bypass NIC Module Slot I/O Interface OPMA Slot Reset Button LED Power Button Console USB LCD Module Display Power Input HDD/SSD Support Onboard Storage PCIe mini-PCIe Watchdog Internal RTC w/ Li Battery TPM Processor System

Environmental Parameters

Temperature Humidity (RH)

System Dimensions

(WxDxH) Weight

Package Dimensions

(WxDxH) Weight

Power

Type / Watts Input

Approvals and Compliance

14 www.lannerinc.com

NCA-2510
1U 19" Rackmount Intel® AtomTM C3000, 8~16 Cores (Denverton) onboard SoC Intel® QuickAssist Technology AMI SPI Flash BIOS DDR4 2400MHz ECC or non-ECC UDIMM 32GB 4 x 288pin DIMM 1 x GbE RJ45 Intel® i210 4 x GbE RJ-45 Intel® i350-AM4 4 SFP+ Intel® Denverton Integrated (By SKU) 2 pairs Gen3 (By SKU) 1 1 x RJ45 (By SKU) Yes (By SKU) 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 x ATX Power switch 1 x RJ45 2 x USB 3.0 2x20 character LCM 4 x keypads From OPMA slot (Optional) AC power inlet on PSU 2 x 2.5" bays 1 x mSATA 1 x PCI-E*8 HH/HL (Optional) N/A Yes Yes Yes (optional) Passive CPU heatsink 2 x cooling fans with smart fan 0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating 5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 438 x 321 x 44 mm 4.4 kg 540 x 500 x 230 mm 8 kg 220W ATX Single PSU AC 90~264V @47~63Hz RoHS, CE/FCC Class A, UL

NCA-2513

NCA-4025

1U 19" Rackmount
Intel® AtomTM C3000 2~8 Cores (Denverton-R)
onboard

1U 19" Rackmount Intel® Xeon® D2100 8/12/16 Cores 1 x FCBGA2518

SoC

N/A

Intel® QuickAssist Technology

Intel® QuickAssist Technology (By SKU)

AMI SPI Flash BIOS DDR4 2400MHz ECC or non-ECC UDIMM/ RDIMM 64GB

AMI SPI Flash BIOS DDR4 2666MHz REG DIMM 512GB

2x 288-pin DIMM

4 x 288-pin DIMM

2 x GbE RJ45 Intel® i210 2 x GbE RJ45 Intel® i350-AM2 (By SKU) 4 x GbE RJ45 Intel® SoC Integrated MAC

8 x GbE RJ45 Intel® i350-AM4 4 x SFP+ Intel® SoC Integrated MAC

2 pairs Gen3 (By SKU) 1 N/A N/A 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 x ATX Power switch 1 x RJ45 2 x USB 3.0 or 2.0 (By SKU) 2x20 character LCM 4 x keypads N/A AC Power Inlet on PSU 2 x 2.5" bays 1 x M.2 1 x PCI-E*8 or *4 FH/HL (By SKU) Yes (By SKU) Yes Yes Yes Passive CPU Heatsink 1 x Cooling Fan 0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating 5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 438 x 321 x 44 mm 4.4 kg 540 x 500 x 230 mm 8 kg 150W ATX Single PSU AC 90V~264V @47~63Hz RoHS, CE/FCC Class A, UL

N/A 2 1 x LOM for IPMI (Optional) N/A 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 x ATX Power switch 1 x RJ45 2 x USB 2.0 N/A N/A AC Power Inlet on PSU 2 x 2.5" Internal 1 x M.2 N/A N/A Yes Yes Yes (optional) Passive CPU heatsink 4 x Swappable Smart Fans 0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating 5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 438 x 510 x 44 mm 8.6 kg 739 x 582 x 215 mm 15 kg 450W 1+1 Redundant PSU AC 110~240V @47~63 Hz RoHs, CE/FCC Class A, UL

1U 19" Rackmount

NCA-4020

Intel® Xeon® D2100 4~16 Cores (Skylake-DE)

1 x FCBGA2518 N/A Intel® QuickAssist Technology (By SKU) AMI SPI Flash BIOS DDR4 2666MHz REG DIMM 128GB 4 x 288-pin DIMM

10 x GbE RJ45 (4 x or 8 x PoE+, By SKU) 4 x 10G SFP+

N/A N/A 1 x RJ45 IPMI Onboard 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 x ATX Power switch 1 x RJ45 2 x USB 2.0 N/A Internal Pin Header AC Power Inlet on PSU 2 x 2.5" Internal 2 x M.2 (w/ LTE Support) 1 x PCI-E*8 FH/HL (Optional) 1 x Mini-PCIe (PCIe*1/USB2.0) Yes Yes Yes (optional) Passive CPU heatsink 3 x cooling fans with smart fan 0~40ºC Operating -40~70ºC Non-Operating 5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 438 x 468 x 44 mm 7.9 kg 739 x 582 x 215 mm 13.6 kg 600W 1+1 ATX Redundant PSUs AC 100~240V @47~63Hz RoHS, CE/FCC Class A, UL

NCA-4220

NCA-5220

1U 19" Rackmount

1U 19" Rackmount

Intel® CoreTM i7/i5/i3 or Pentium® or Celeron® (Coffee Lake)

Intel® Xeon® E or Core i3 or Pentium or Celeron Processor (Coffee Lake), Up to 6 Cores

1 x LGA1151

1 x LGA1151

Intel® H310/Q370/C246

Intel® C246

N/A

N/A

AMI SPI Flash BIOS DDR4 2666MHz ECC(By CPU for C246 only) or Non-ECC UDIMM 32GB

AMI SPI Flash BIOS DDR4 2666 MHz ECC (By CPU) or Non-ECC UDIMM 128GB (32GB per DIMM)

2 x 288pin DIMM

4 x 288-pin DIMM

8 x GbE RJ45 Intel® i210

2x GbE RJ45 for Dual MGMT Intel® i210 8x GbE RJ45 Intel® i210(SKU A) 4x GbE RJ45 Intel® i350-AM4 (SKU A) 4x SFP LAN Ports (By Project)

up to 3 pairs Gen3 (By SKU)

Up to 5 Pairs of Gen3 Bypass (By SKU)

1

2

-

1 x RJ45

-

Yes

1

1

Power/Status/Storage

Power/Status/Storage

1 x ATX Power switch

1 x ATX Power Switch

1 x RJ45

1 x RJ45

2 x USB 3.0

2 x USB 3.0

2x20 character LCM 4 x keypads

4 x Keypads, 16x2 Character LCD

HDMI (Optional)

From OPMA Slot (Optional)

AC power inlet on PSU

AC Power Inlet on PSU

2 x 2.5" bays

2 x 2.5" Bays

1 x M.2

1 x M.2 2242, B+M Key (Optional)

1 x PCI-E*8 (Default), 2 x PCI-E*4 (Optional)

2 x PCIe*4 FH/HL (Optional)

1 x Mini-PCIe

N/A

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes (optional)

Yes (Optional)

Passive CPU heatsink

Passive CPU Heatsink

2 x cooling fans with smart fan

2 x Cooling Fans with Smart Fan

0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating

0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating

5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating

5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating

438 x 321 x 44 mm

438mm x 500mm x 44mm

7.5 kg

7.1kg

540 x 500 x 230 mm

739mm x 582mm x 215mm

8.5 kg

13kg

220W ATX Single PSU

300W 1+1 ATX Redundant PSUs

AC 90~264V @47~63 Hz

AC 90V~264V @47~63Hz

RoHS, CE/FCC Class A, UL

RoHS, CE/FCC Class A, UL

www.lannerinc.com 15

Rackmount Network Appliances

Feature Form Factor

Description

Processor Options

Platform BIOS

CPU Socket Chipset Security Acceleration

Technology System Memory
Max. Capacity Socket

Networking LOM I/O Interface Storage

Ethernet Ports
Bypass NIC Module Slot I/O Interface OPMA Slot Reset Button LED Power Button Console USB LCD Module Display Power Input HDD/SSD Support Onboard Storage

PCIe Expansion

Miscellaneous Cooling

mini-PCIe / NVME Watchdog Internal RTC with Li Battery TPM Processor
System

Environmental Parameters

Temperature Humidity (RH)

System Dimensions
Package Dimensions
Power

(WxDxH) Weight (WxDxH) Weight Type / Watts
Input

Approvals and Compliance

16 www.lannerinc.com

NCA-5230
1U 19" Rackmount Intel® Xeon® i9/i7/i5/i3 Processors (Comet Lake-S) 1 x LGA1200 Intel® W480E N/A AMI SPI Flash BIOS
DDR4 2933 MHz ECC or Non-ECC UDIMM
128GB 4 x 288-pin DIMM 8x GbE RJ45 8x SFP 4 Pairs (For RJ45 Copper Only) 2 Optional Yes 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 x ATX Power Switch 1 x RJ45 2 x USB 3.0 4 x Keypads, 16x2 Character LCD Optional AC Power Inlet on PSU 2 x 2.5" Bays 1 x M.2 (SATA) 2242/2280 B+M key
1 x PCI-E*8 FH/HL (Optional)
N/A Yes Yes Yes Passive CPU Heatsink
4 x Cooling Fans with Smart Fan
0~40ºC Operating -40~70ºC Non-Operating 5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 438 x 468 x 44 mm 7.6 kg 739 x 582 x 215 mm 15.8 kg 350W 1+1 ATX Redundant PSUs
TBD
RoHS, CE/FCC Class A, UKCA, UL

NCA-5520
1U 19" Rackmount Intel® Xeon® Scalable CPUs (Skylake-SP & Cascade Lake-SP) 1 x LGA3647 Intel® C621/626 Intel® QuickAssist Technology (By SKU) AMI SPI Flash BIOS
DDR4 2666MHz REG DIMM
384GB 12 x 288pin DIMM 4 x GbE RJ45 or 4 x 10G SFP+ Lewisburg Internal MAC Depends on NIC Module Specifications 4 1 x RJ45 (Optional) N/A, IPMI Chip Onboard 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 x ATX Power switch 1 x RJ45, 1 x Mini USB 2 x USB 3.0 N/A (Optional) Internal Pin Header AC power inlet on PSU 2 x 2.5" Internal 1 x mSATA

NCA-5530
1U 19" Rackmount 3rd Gen Intel® Xeon® Scalable CPU (Ice Lake SP) 1 x LGA4189 Intel® C621A/C627A Intel® QuickAssist Technology (By SKU) AMI SPI Flash BIOS
DDR4 3200MHz REG DIMM
512GB 8 x 288pin DIMM
1 x GbE RJ45 Intel i210
Depends on NIC Module Specifications 4 or 2 1 x RJ45 (Optional) *Share with ETH0 Yes 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 x ATX Power switch 1 x RJ45 2 x USB 3.0 N/A (Optional) 1 x VGA, From OPMA Slot (Optional) AC power inlet on PSU 2 x 2.5" Internal 1 x M.2-2280 (SATA)

1 x PCI-E*16 FH/HL (Optional)

N/A (Default); 1x PCI-E*16 FH/HL (By Project)

N/A Yes Yes Yes (Optional) Passive CPU heatsink
4 x Individual Hot-swappable Cooling Fans w/ Smart Fan

N/A Yes Yes Yes (Optional TPM2.0) Passive CPU heatsink
5 x Or 4 x Individual Hot-swappable Cooling Fans w/ Smart Fan (By SKU)

0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating

0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating

5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating
438 x 650 x 43.5 mm 16.5 kg 790 x 600 x 220 mm 18 kg TBD

5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating
438 x 610 x 44mm 10.5kg 739 x 215 x 582mm 18.5kg 550W 1+1 ATX Redundant PSUs

AC 100~240V @47~63Hz

AC 100~240V @47~63Hz

TBD

RoHS, CE, FCC Class A, UL

1U 19" Rackmount

NCA-5710

Intel® Xeon® Processor Scalable Family (Skylake-SP/Cascade Lake-SP)

2 x LGA3647 Intel® C621/627 Intel® QuickAssist Technology (By SKU) AMI SPI Flash BIOS

DDR4 2666MHz REG DIMM

384GB 12 x 288pin DIMM

4 x 10G SFP+ Lewisburg Internal MAC

Depends on NIC Module Specifications 4 1 x RJ45 (Optional) *Share with ETH0 IPMI Chip Onboard (SKU B & C) 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 x ATX Power switch 1 x RJ45, 1 x Mini USB 2 x USB 3.0 N/A (Optional) Internal Pin Header AC power inlet on PSU 2 x 2.5" Internal 1 x M.2

1 x PCI-E*16 FH/HL (Optional)

N/A Yes Yes Yes (Optional) Passive CPU heatsink
6 x Individual Hot-swappable cooling fans with smart fan
0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating 5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 438 x 650 x 44 mm 12 kg 841 x 588 x 215 mm 19 kg 850W 1+1 ATX Redundant PSUs
AC 100~240V @47~63Hz
RoHS, CE/FCC Class A, UL

2U 19" Rackmount

NCA-6210

Intel® Xeon® Scalable CPUs (Skylake-SP & Cascade Lake-SP)

2 x LGA3647 Intel® C621/627 Intel® QuickAssist Technology (By SKU) AMI SPI Flash BIOS

DDR4 2666MHz REG DIMM

640GB 20 x 288pin DIMM 1 or 2 x GbE RJ45 Intel® i210 (By SKU) 2 x 10G SFP+ Lewisburg Internal MAC (By SKU) Depends on NIC Module Specifications 8 1 x RJ45 (By SKU) IPMI Onboard (SKU C & D) 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 x ATX Power switch 1 x RJ45, 1 x Mini USB (By SKU) 2 x USB 3.0 N/A (Optional) 1 x VGA (Optional) AC power inlet on PSU 2 x 3.5" Swappable (with Support for 2 x 2.5") 1 x mSATA (M.2 By Project)

1 x PCI-E*16 FH/HL (Optional)

N/A Yes Yes Yes (Optional) Passive CPU heatsink
4 x Individual Hot-swappable cooling fan with smart fan
0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating
5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 438 x 600 x 88 mm 24 kg 935 x 588 x 258 mm 26 kg 850W 1+1 ATX Redundant PSUs AC 100~240V @47~63Hz AC 90~264V @47~63Hz RoHS/RoHS, CE, FCC Class A, UL

2U 19" Rackmount

NCA-6520

3rd Gen Intel® Xeon® Scalable CPU (Ice Lake SP)

2 x LGA4189 Intel® C627A Intel® QuickAssist Technology AMI SPI Flash BIOS

DDR4 3200 MHz R-DIMM 1536GB 24 x 288-pin DIMM 2 x GbE RJ45 Intel® i350-AM2

Depends on NIC Module Specifications 8 1 x RJ45 IPMI Onboard 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 x ATX Power switch 1 x RJ45 2 x USB 3.0 N/A (Optional) 1 x VGA (Internal Pin Header) AC power inlet on PSU 2x 3.5" or 2.5" Swappable 2x M.2 (NVME); 1x M.2 (SATA)
SKU A: (Default) N/A 1x PCIe x16 HH/FL & 1x PCIe x16 HH/HL (Optional) SKU B: (Default) N/A 2x PCIe x16 FH/FL (Optional)
N/A Yes Yes TPM2.0 (Optional) Passive CPU heatsink
4 x Individual Hot-swappable cooling fan with smart fan

0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating
5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 438 x 720 x 88mm 19.3kg 588 x 997 x 250mm 32 kg 850W 1+1 ATX Redundant PSUs
AC 100~240V @47~63Hz
RoHS/RoHS, CE, FCC Class A, UL

www.lannerinc.com 17

Rackmount Network Appliances

Feature Form Factor

Description

NCA-4112
1U 19" Rackmount

Processor Options

AMD EPYCTM 3000 Series (4~8 Cores)

Platform
BIOS System Memory

CPU Socket Chipset Security Acceleration
Technology Max. Capacity Socket

Networking

Ethernet Ports Bypass NIC Module Slot

LOM

I/O Interface OPMA Slot Reset Button LED Power Button

I/O Interface

Console USB

LCD Module Display Power Input

Storage Expansion Miscellaneous

HDD/SSD Support Onboard Storage PCIe mini-PCIe / NVME Watchdog Internal RTC with Li Battery TPM

Cooling

Processor System

Environmental Parameters

Temperature Humidity (RH)

System Dimensions

(WxDxH) Weight

Package Dimensions

(WxDxH) Weight

Power

Type / Watts Input

Approvals and Compliance

18 www.lannerinc.com

SP4r2 SoC 10Gbps Encryption + 10Gbps Decryption AMI SPI Flash BIOS DDR4 2666 MHz ECC/U/R DIMM 128GB 4 x 288-pin DIMM 8 x GbE RJ45 Intel® i350-AM4 2 x 10G SFP+ (By SKU) 3 x Pairs of Gen3 1 1 x RJ45 Yes 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 x ATX Power Switch 1 x RJ45 2 x USB 3.0 1 x LCM, 4 x Keypads From OPMA Slot for VGA (Optional) AC Power Inlet on PSU 2 x 2.5" Swappable Bays 1 x 2242 M.2 N/A 1 x Mini-PCIe Yes Yes TPM 2.0 (Optional) Passive CPU Heatsink 2 x Cooling Fans w/ Smart Fan 0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating 5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 438 x 431 x 44 mm 8.6 kg 582 x 548 x 182 mm 13 kg 300W Redundant PSUs 100~240VAC @50~60Hz, 5~3A RoHS, CE, FCC, UL

NCA-5310
1U 19" Rackmount AMD 3rd Gen EPYCTM Processor Family (Codenamed Milan) SP3 N/A 40Gbps Encryption + 40Gbps Decryption AMI SPI Flash BIOS DDR4 3200MHz ECC REG DIMM 512GB 8 x 288-pin DIMM

NCA-6110
2U 19" Rackmount
AMD EPYCTM 7000 Series (Up to 32C64T)
2 x SP3r1 N/A 40Gbps Encryption + 40Gbps Decryption AMI SPI Flash BIOS DDR4 3200MHz ECC REG DIMM 1024GB 16 x 288-pin DIMM

1 x GbE RJ45 Intel® i210

2 x GbE RJ45 Intel® i210

N/A 4 1 x RJ45 Yes 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 x ATX Power Switch 1 x RJ45 2 x USB 3.0 N/A 1 x VGA (Optional) AC Power Inlet on PSU 2 x 2.5" Swappable Bays 1 x 22110/2280 M.2 Slot 1 x PCIe*8 FHHL N/A Yes Yes Yes (Optional) Passive CPU Heatsink 5 x Individual Hot-swappable Cooling Fans 0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating 5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 438 x 610 x 44 mm 10.6 kg 739 x 582 x 215 mm 15 kg 550W 1+1 ATX Redundant PSUs AC 100V~240V @47~63Hz RoHS, CE, FCC, UL

N/A 8 1 x RJ45 Yes 1 Power/Status/Storage 1 x ATX Power Switch 1 x RJ45 2 x USB 2.0 N/A 1 x VGA (Optional) AC Power Inlet on PSU SKU A: 4 x 2.5" or 3.5" SKU B: 2 x 2.5" or 3.5" 1 x mSATA 2x PCIe*8 FHHL or 1x PCIe*16 FHHL N/A / Max. 1TB Yes Yes Yes (Optional) Passive CPU Heatsink 4 x Individual Hot-swappable Cooling Fans 0~40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating 5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating 438 x 647 x 88 mm 24 kg 825 x 600 x 270 mm 33 kg 850W 1+1 ATX Redundant PSUs AC 100V~240V @47~63Hz RoHS, CE, FCC, UL

IT Security
NIC Modules

Enhance the performance and bandwidth of your network appliances with Lanner's new swappable network modules. These modules enable higher packet processing for network appliances in applications such as DPI,

IPS/IDS and WAN optimization.

Model Name NCS2-IGM806A NCS2-ISM405A

Ports

Chipset

GbE RJ45 Modules

8

i350-AM4

GbE SFP Modules

4

i350-AM4

Bypass 4 Pairs Gen3 Fiber Bypass

Processor and Performance Choose from a wide selection of network modules powered by Intel's latest CPU/chipset technologies, which include Intel® E810/XL710, XXV710, Mellanox® ConnectX® series multi-host Ethernet controller and more.

NCS2-ISM802A

8

i350-AM4

N/A

10G RJ45 Modules

NCS2-ITM401

4

XL710-BM1

N/A

10G Fiber Modules

NCS2-IXM407

4

XL710-AM2

N/A

NCS2-IXM415

4

E810-AM1

N/A

NCS2-IXM803

8

E810-AM2

N/A

25G Modules

NCS2-IVM201

2

XXV710-AM2

N/A

40G Modules

NCS2-IQM201

2

XL710-BM2

N/A

Wide Compatibility and Scalability Lanner offers wide compatibility and scalability with our custom modular design. Our modules are certified with endurance and compatibility tests and are compatible with our existing and future network appliances.
Module Customizations Choose from 20+ Ethernet network modules, including RJ-45, fiber, bypass and transmission rates from 1GbE, 10GbE, 25GbE, 40GbE to even 100GbE. Lanner also has PCI-E expansion modules for data storage, Wi-Fi connectivity, video transcoding and more.

100G Modules

N2S-IHM203

2

E810-CAM2

N/A

NCS2-IHM204A/B

2/1

E810-CAM2/1

N/A

N2S-MHM203

2

ConnectX-6

N/A

Time to Market Aiming to accelerate your time-to-market development, Lanner customizes our standard models based on your specific, mission-critical applications.

N2S-MHM202A

2

ConnectX-5 EN

N/A

www.lannerinc.com 19

Expandable Modular Design
Design and customize your appliances for today's dynamic network environments with the all-new F.A.S.T. Solutions. These Flexible, Adaptable, Scalable and Transformable multi-purpose solutions are compatible with Lanner appliances and are developed for unleashing, expanding and accelerating networking appliances' connectivity, storage, video transcoding and Open Compute capabilities.
Connectivity Modules
Lanner offer wide selections of NIC modules that support 1/10/25/40/100/200/400GbE with copper and fiber interface, bypass and fiber bypass, RF/Wifi/4G/LTE connectivity, as well as PoE ready design.

100Gbps NIC Module - NCS2-IHM204/ N2S-MHM202A · Intel E810 Series/Mellanox ConnectX®-5 EN Ethernet Controller · 2 x 100GbE QSFP28/Fiber Ports

4-port PoE+ NIC Module - NCS2-POEIG402A / NCS2-POEIG801A

(Power over Ethernet) module

· Intel Ethernet Controller

· IEEE 802.3af/at Compliant

· 4/8 x PoE+ RJ45 Ports, 30W Per Module

RF Carrier Module - NCS2-M201 · Support For Wifi/5G Cards Or Lanner PGN-300/600 LTE Modules · 1 x Gen3 PCIe*8 Golden Finger · Integrated LED On Cage

RF Carrier Module - NCS2-MINIPCIE02

· 1 x MPCIE slot (PCIE)

· 1 x MPCIE slot (PCIE/USB)

· 1 x m.2 B key (USB)

· 2 x SIM card readers

· 4 x Antennas

Swappable 4G/LTE Radio Modem Module - PGN-600/PGN-300

· Sierra Wireless EM7511/EM7455 · CAT-12/ CAT-6

· AT&T/Verizon Pre-certified

· 2x SIM, 2x 4G LTE Antenna

· PTCRB/FirstNetTM/CBRS Pre-certified

20 www.lannerinc.com

F.A.S.T. Solutions

Storage Modules
The new swappable storage modules support mainstream standard storage devices, including 2.5" SSD/HDD, 3.5" HDD, and future-proof NVMe SSD drive.

NCS2-25TRAY201 · Single NCS2 Form Factor · 2x 2.5" Swappable Tray

N3S-35TRAY201 · Tri NCS2 Form Factor · 2x 3.5" Swappable Tray

NCS2-NVMEM2201 · NCS2 Form Factor · 2x M.2 Connector (Length 2280 & 22110)

PCI-Express Expansion Modules
To meet the diverse requirement in open-compute projects, Lanner offer PCIe expansion modules compatible with acceleration cards for GPU, network performance and flow processing.
PCIe Carrier Module - N2S-PCIE16X12A · Double NCS2 NIC Module Slot · Support for 1 x PCIe x16 Full Height, Half-length Card, such as GPU
Card, Storage, Network Acceleration Card or Flow Processing Card
PCIe Carrier Module - N2S-PCIE8X2A · Double NCS2 NIC Module Slot · Support for 2 x PCIe x8 Full Height, Half-length Card, such as GPU
Card, Storage, Network Acceleration Card or Flow Processing Card

Video Transcoding Modules
Lanner provides front-facing, easily swappable video transcoding modules that transport high quality streaming and bandwidth-hungry video content.
Video Transcoding NIC With Intel® Tiger Lake U - NCS2-VT04 · Video transport NIC module for Lanner network appliances · Intel® Tiger Lake U CPU (i7/Celeron) · Max. 32GB DDR4 3200 MHz non-ECC UDIMM · 10bit HEVC Codec
www.lannerinc.com 21

OT Security
Rugged Security Appliance

Lanner ICS / ISD / OT Security Solutions
To fully protect critical infrastructures from advanced cyber malwares, it is necessary to establish multi-layer protections covering both IT and OT networks. In a common digitalized setting for critical infrastructures, OT controls and manages Industrial Zone (Layer 0~3) like instrumentation bus, controller LAN and supervisory HMI and SCADA systems, whereas the IT monitors and authenticates Enterprise Zone (Layer 4~5) like web server, email server, FTP server and enterprise servers. In a more advanced model, an Industrial DMZ Zone (Layer 3.5) is established as an additional layer of protection towards externally interfaced services.
Lanner, the leading hardware solution providers for network security, offers wide-range, customizable hardware platforms designed to protect the communication protocols in both IT and OT domains for critical infrastructures including energy, power, oil and gas industries.

IIoT Network Security Gateway

- Antivirus/Malware

- SCADA Encryption

- Virtualization Security

- DLP/SIEM - IDS/IPS/IAM - DDoS Protection

Layer 3.5
Industrial DMZ Zone

Layer 4~5
Enterprise Zone

Enterprise Firewall
NCA-4210

Internet

Layer 0~2
Cell/Area Zone

Layer 3
Industrial Zone
Rugged Firewall

Mail Server

App. Server

Industrial Firewall

NCA-4010

NCA-2510

LEC-3231

SCADA

LEC-6032

HMI

PLC HMI

LEC-6032
IED RTU

22 www.lannerinc.com

ICS / OT Security Appliances

OT Security Appliance IEC-61850 OT Security Appliance IEC-61850 OT Security Appliance

Model Name

LEC-6032

LEC-6041

LEC-3340

CPU

Intel® AtomTM E3845

Intel® AtomTM x7-E3950 or x5-E3930

Intel® Xeon® E3-1505L V6 or Core i5-7442EQ CPU

Processor System

Frequency Core Number BIOS

1.91 Ghz 4C AMI SPI Flash BIOS

Atom x5-E3930: 1.3 GHz, Atom x7-E3950: 1.6 GHz Atom x5-E3930: 2, Atom x7-E3950: 4 AMI SPI Flash BIOS

2.2 GHz or 2.9 GHz Intel Xeon E3-1505L V6 / Core i5-7442EQ: Quad core AMI SPI Flash BIOS

Chipset

SoC

SoC

Intel® CM238

Fanless

Yes

Yes

Yes

Technology

DDR3L 1333 MHz

DDR3L, 1866 MHz

DDR4 ECC

Memory

Max. Capacity

8GB

8GB

Up to 64 GB

Graphic

Socket Controller Interface

1x 204-pin SODIMM Intel® HD Graphics Internal pin header

1x 204-pin SODIMM Intel HD 505 Graphics 1 x HDMI

2 x 260-pin SODIMM
Intel® Xeon® E3-1505L V6: HD Graphics P530 Core i5-7442EQ CPU: HD Graphics P630
DP, DVI-D

Controller

Intel® i210

Intel® i210

Intel® i210

Ethernet

Speed Interface Magnetic Isolation Protection

10/100/1000Mbps

RJ45: 10/100/1000Mbps, SFP: 1 Gbps

6032B: 5 x GbE RJ-45, 2 pairs Bypass 6032C: 5 x GbE RJ-45, 1 pair Bypass, 2 x SFP GbE ports 6032D: 5 x GbE RJ-45, 1 pair Bypass 6032F: 3 x GbE RJ-45, 1 pair Bypass, 4 x SFP GbE ports

5 x GbE RJ45, 1 pair LAN Bypass 2 x GbE SFP ports

1.5KV magnetic isolation protection

1.5KV magnetic isolation protection

Either 1000 Mbps or 10/100 Mbps 4 x 1000Base-T GbE RJ45 ports 1.5KV magnetic isolation protection

Storage I/O

Type Installation Type Installation
Serial Port ESD Protection Isolation Protection Digital I/O USB 2.0 USB 3.0 Power On/Off/Reset Button

LED

Expansion Interface

PCIe/Mini-PCIe

Watchdog Timer

Power Supply Voltage

SATA II 1x 2.5" Drive Bay 1x DB9 for RS-232 (6032D only), Internal pin-header x 1 15KV ESD Protection 2KV Digital Isolation 1x Type A 1x Type A - / 1x Reset
Storage, RUN, PWR, LAN LEC-6032 C/F: SFP
Watchdog Timer 1~255 Level Time Interval System Reset, Software Programmable 12-36Vdc

m-SATA 1 x mini mSATA socket SATA II 1x 2.5" Drive Bay (Optional)
2x RS-232, DB9 male 15KV ESD protection 2KV Digital Isolation 2x Type A

m-SATA
1 x mSATA socket
SATA II 2 x 2.5" Swappable HDD/SSD drive bay support RAID0,1 2 x DB9 Male (COM1/COM2) with isolation supports software selectable RS-232/422/485 15KV ESD Protection
2KV Digital Isolation
-
-

-

5 x type A

- / 1x Reset
PWR, Storage, Run(User defined), 5 x LAN, 2 x SFP
1x mini-PCIe with 1 SIM card for 4G LTE module (USB & PCIe signal) Watchdog Timer 1~255 Level Time Interval System Reset, Software Programmable

- / 1x Reset
2x Power on for LED (Power1/Power2) in Green 1x Storage access LED for mSATA/HDD1/HDD2 in Green 4x double stack LED for Ethernet active in Yellow; Speed LED 100M in Green; Speed LED 1G: Yellow 2x Double Stack LED for COM1/COM2 TX in Yellow; RX Signal Access in Green 1x Failure LED(User Programmable)in multi-color Red/ Green
1 x PCIe x16, 3 x PCIe x4 slots
Watchdog Timer 1~255 Level Time Interval System Reset, Software Programmable

20-54 Vdc

2x 16.6Vdc or 100~240Vac

Power

Connector Power Consumption (Idle)

6-pin Phoenix Contact Connector 10.62W

Power Consumption (Full Load) 14.63W

Operating Temperature

-40~70°C (-40~176°F)

6-Pin Terminal Block
SKU A/20V:12.8W, SKU A/54V12.8W, SKU B/20V:13.9W, SKU B/54V: 14.4W SKU A/20V: 14.8W, SKU A/54V:14.4W SKU B/20V:18.4W, SKU B/54V:19.3W
-40~70°C (-40~176°F)

3-Pin Terminal Block 16.3W 28.7W -40°C~70°C (-40-158°F)

Environment Storage Temperature

-40~85°C (-40~185°F)

-40~85°C (-40~185°F)

-40~85°C (-40~185°F)

Relative Humidity

5%~95%, Non-condensing

5%~95%, Non-condensing

5%~95%, Non-condensing

Dimension (W x H x D)

Mechanical

Construction Weight Mounting

Driver Support

Microsoft Windows Linux

Certification EMC

Compliance

78 x 146 x 127 mm (3.07"x 5.75"x 5.00") Aluminum 2.2 Kg DIN rail, Wallmount Windoows 7 Embedded Kernel 3.X CE,FCC Class A RoHS

53.5 x 166 x160 mm (2.11"x 6.54"x 6.30") Aluminum + SGCC 1.6 Kg DIN rail, Wallmount Windows 10 PRO Kernel 4.X CE,FCC Class A RoHS, IEC 61850-3

438 x 131.8 x 300.1 mm Aluminum + Steel 8.5 kg Rackmount Windows 10 PRO Kernel 4.X CE,FCC Class A RoHS, IEC 61850-3

Ordering Information

LEC-6032B/C/D/F

LEC-6041A/B

LEC-3340A/B/C/D

www.lannerinc.com 23

ICS / OT Security Appliances

Rugged Wireless Gateway

IP67 Wireless Gateway

Rail Cyber Security Appliance

Processor System
Fanless Memory
Graphic

Model Name
CPU Frequency Core Number BIOS Chipset
Technology Max. Capacity Socket Controller Interface

Controller

Ethernet Storage

Speed Interface Bypass Type Installation Type Installation

Serial Port ESD Protection

NCR-1510
Intel® Denverton C3308/C3508/C3708
1.6 ~ 1.7 GHz 2~8 Cores AMI SPI Flash BIOS SoC Yes DDR4 2400MHz ECC/Non-ECC SKU A/D: 32GB, SKU B/C/E/F:64GB SKU A/D:1x 260-pin SODIMM, SKU B/C/E/F:2x 260-pin SODIMM N/A N/A 4 x GbE RJ45 Intel® SoC Integrated MAC 2 x SFP Intel® i210 (By SKU) or 2 x GbE RJ45 Intel i210 (By SKU) 10/100/1000Mbps 6 x GbE RJ45 or 4 x RJ45 & 2 x GbE SFP (By SKU) 1 pair Gen3 SATA 1 x 2.5" Bay (Optional) M.2 SKU A/B/C: 1x M.2 B key 3042 for LTE, 2242 SSD (signal: USB3.0, SATA)
N/A
N/A

ISD-O370

ICS-R372

Intel® Denverton C3708/C3808

Intel Apollo Lake X7-E3950

1.7~2.0 GHz 8~12 Cores AMI SPI Flash BIOS SoC Yes DDR4 up to 2133 MT/s ECC SODIMM 64 GB, Deafult ECC RAM 16GB x1 2x 260-pin SODIMM

2.0 GHz 4 Cores AMI SPI Flash BIOS SoC Yes LPDDR4 Up to 8GB (Factory default: 8GB pre-installed) 1 x 260-pin SODIMM

N/A
N/A
All Ethernet ports are supported with SR-IOV, 4x GbE LAN, 2x GbE POE+ by M12 X-coded 8pin Female connector with isolation 1.5KVDC
10/100/1000Mbps 4x GbE LAN, 2x GbE POE+ by M12 X-coded 8pin Female connector N/A
SATA
N/A
M.2
1x M.2 2242 B key

Intel integrated HD Graphics 505 2 x HDMI
Intel® i210-IT
10/100/1000Mbps Up to 6 x Ethernet ports with M12 X-coded connectors N/A m-SATA, SDXC 1 x mSATA socket, 1 x SDXC socket SATA II Internal 2.5" drive bay x 1

1 x RS232/485 by M12 X-coded 8pin Female connector with isolation 1.5KVDC

1 x RS232 (console)

1.5KVDC

-

Isolation Protection

N/A

I/O

Digital I/O

N/A

USB 2.0 USB 3.0 Power On/Off/Reset Button LED

Expansion Interface

PCIe/Mini-PCIe

Watchdog Timer

1 x Mini USB for console
2 x USB 3.0 (By SKU)
1x DC Jack, 1x Reset Button
Power/Status/Storage
SKU A/B/C: 1x M.2 B Key 3042 For LTE, 2242 SSD (Signal: USB3.0, SATA) With Nano-SIM; 2x Mini-PCIe for Wi-Fi,LTE (Signal: USB2.0,PCIe) With Nano-SIM
Yes

Power

Power Supply Voltage Connector Power Consumption (Idle) Power Consumption (Full Load)

Operating Temperature Environment Storage Temperature
Relative Humidity

Dimension (W x H x D)

9~54 VDC
2-pin terminal block
TBD
TBD -40~70ºC Operating (SKU A/B) -40~60ºC Operating (SKU C) -40~85ºC (-40~185°F) 5~90% Operating 5~95%, Non-Operating
310 x 44 x 240 mm (12.20" x 1.73" x 9.45")

Yes

-

N/A
1 x USB 2.0 by M12 A-coded 8pin Male connector N/A N/A N/A
1x M.2 304(5)2 B Key socket for 5G 1x M.2 2230 E Key socket for WiFi 6 Mini-SIM & 1x eSIM (reserved)

4 x type A -
TBD
M.2 3042 B Key x2

Yes

Fintek F81866AD-I integrated watchdog timer 1~255 level

DC-IN, Up to 130W, Rated 24-36Vdc (range 9-50Vdc) Power input DC 9~50V / 43~154V

M12 K-coded 5pin Male connector

M12 K-coded

TBD

TBD

TBD
-40~70ºC Operating (SKU D & F) -40~60ºC Operating (SKU C & E)
-40~85ºC Ambient storage 5~90% Operating 5~95% Non-Operating

TBD -40°C~70°C (-40-158°F) -40~85°C (-40~185°F) 5%~95%, Non-condensing

370mm x 210mm x 83mm

272.4 x 114.3 x 228 mm (10.72" x 4.5" x 8.97")

Mechanical
Driver Support

Construction Weight Mounting Microsoft Windows Linux

Certification EMC

Compliance

Aluminum + Steel
3 kg Wallmount Windows: Win10 IOT Linux: Redhat Enterprise 5, Fedora 14. Linux Kernel 2.6.18 or later CE/FCC Class A
RoHS

Aluminum + Steel 4.6 kg Wallmount N/A Linux Kernel CE/FCC Class A UL 62368-1, CB, IP67, MIL-STD-810G

Aluminum + Steel
7 kg
Wallmount
Windows: Win10 IOT Linux: Redhat Enterprise 5, Fedora 14. Linux Kernel 2.6.18 or later CE/FCC Class A E13, EN50155, EN50121-3-2, EN50121-4, EN50125-3, EN45545-2, MIL-STD-810G anti-vibration & shock

Ordering Information

NCR-1510 A/B/C/D/E/F

ISD-O370 C/D/E/F

ICS-R372

24 www.lannerinc.com

CT Security
Hyper Converged Platform

uCPE / SD-WAN

Branch

NCA-1515 / NCA-1516 5G / WiFi 6 / 10G

Enterprise Edge

Driving 5G Edge Network Computing
MEC
Mobile Access

Open RAN

Cell Tower

E400 Wide Temp / Pole Mount

Edge Cloud
HTCA-6600 P4 Switch / IEEE1588
5G Edge Cloud

With the advances in networking technologies like SDN and NFV, communication service providers and carriers benefit from the flexibility and the agility to evolve their new services. Designed for next generation network virtualization, Lanner provides carrier-grade, NEBS-compliant communication platforms featuring extreme computing power, modular I/O flexibility, WiFi/LTE connectivity and full redundancy design. These high-availability SDN/NFV ready platforms are ideal to work as virtual CPE, virtual Router, NFVi appliance and MEC platforms for today's telecom environments.

SD-WAN uCPE
uCPE devices for SD-Security, SD-WAN and other VNF in access networks

Hyper Converged Infrastructure
HCI-ready platforms with multi-node compute, switching and storage in one single appliance

Mobile Edge Computing
MEC servers deployed at edge data center for ultra-low latency, high bandwidth content delivery
Outdoor Edge Computing
5G/-WiFi 6 ready platforms for telco central offices, data centers in core networks

5G Edge Open RAN
NEBS compliant network platforms for virtualized cloud-based radio access networking at CORD
vRouter vBNG
Customizable and scalable whitebox hardware platforms for vRouter and vBNG
www.lannerinc.com 25

HTCA-E400
Consolidated Edge Server for Open RAN

Powered by 5x Intel Xeon Scalable Processors, Lanner HTCA-E400 is a consolidated hyper-converged edge server specifically designed for OpenRAN infrastructure. With support of Intel Tofino P4 and FPGA/ GPU acceleration, the scalable HTCA-E400 edge compute platform features programmable, intelligent switching capability that can offload open architecture CPU and is cost-effective in the long term through supporting protocol-independent and multi-Tbps networking performance without being compromised by hardware bottleneck.

PCIE, Storage and OCP NIC 3.0 Card Expansion

hort-Depth Chassis Designed for 5G Distributed Edge

5x Compute Sleds with 3rd Gen Intel Xeon Scalable Processors

Consolidated Edge Server for Next-Gen Open RAN

2x Switch Sleds with Intel Tofino P4 Programmable ASIC

Compute and Switch Sleds
Lanner HTCA-E400 compatible and swappable sleds lineup provide enhanced redundancy, interoperability, flexibility, bandwidth and performance boosts.

Blades

Picture

Features/Ports

Chipset

HTCA-E400

HybridTCATM 4U telecom network appliance chassis

Intel Ice Lake

HMB-E100

1U Compute sled for HTCA-E400

Intel Ice Lake

HMB-E200

2U Compute sled for HTCA-E400

Intel Ice Lake

HLM-E110

1U Switch sled for HTCA-E400 Fabric interface with 6x 100GbE QSFP28, 8x 10/25GbE SFP+
Optional IEEE 1588

Intel Tofino Series

The Compute, I/O blades or NIC modules shown in this material are not designed to operate independently without a compatible Lanner appliance. Please make sure a compatible Lanner appliance is in place before purchasing the modules.

26 www.lannerinc.com

HybridTCA Architecture

Lanner's HybridTCA Platforms integrate control, management and data processing in one system and have advantages over the prevalent AdvancedTCA infrastructure in aspects of hardware design, customization options and cost/energy efficiency.
Middle Plane

High Availability - Hot plug & hot-swap - Redundant PSU & fans - Rich IPMI manageability

Validation NEBS and FIPS compliance
Multiple Computing Blades Multicore computing capability with dual Intel® Xeon® CPUs for each blade

Storage

SATA HDD bay for

each MB blade

x6

Control Panel

Fully Modular Design A wide range of computing and networking blades available

Switching Capacity - Packet load balancing - Blade communications

x4

x2

Compute and Networking Blades
Lanner HTCA-compatible and swappable blades lineup provide enhanced redundancy, interoperability, flexibility, bandwidth and performance boosts.

Blades

Picture

Features/Ports

Chipset

HMB-6110

2 x Intel® Xeon® Processor Scalable Family

Intel C621/C627 PCH (by SKU)

HCM-1001

20 port 10GbE SFP+

Intel XL710

HLM-1100

16 port 100GbE QSFP28 + 8 25/10GbE SFP28

Barefoot Tofino Switch

HLM-1101

14x QSFP28 Ports

Barefoot Tofino Switch

HLM-1021

2.0T Bandwidth Fabric Interface Switch
2 x 100G QSFP28,16x 25G SFP28

Broadcom BCM56873(Trident 3)

HLM-1030

6 100GbE QSFP28 4 40GbE QSFP+ 16 10GbE SFP+

BCM56960 (Tomahawk)

The Compute, I/O blades or NIC modules shown in this material are not designed to operate independently without a compatible Lanner appliance. Please make sure a compatible Lanner appliance is in place before purchasing the modules.

www.lannerinc.com 27

Advanced Network Platforms

Feature Form Factor

Description

Platform

Processor Options Chipset

OS Support

Technology

System Memory Max. Capacity

Socket

Storage

HDD Bays
CF/SD Ethernet Ports Bypass

FX-3420
2U 19" Rackmount Intel® Xeon® Processor Scalable Family (Skylake-SP/Cascade Lake-SP up to 205) Intel C612 Linux Kernel 2.6 or above DDR4 2933 MHz REG DIMM 768GB 24x 288-pin DIMM

ECA-4025
1U Rackmount Intel® Xeon D-2100 8/12/14/16 Cores Processor N/A Linux Kernel 2.6 or above, DDR4 2666MHz REG DIMM 64 GB 2 x 288-pin DIMM

Front: 12x 3.5" HDD SATA 6G /SAS 12G or

12x 2.5" NVME

4 x 2.5" Internal SSD/HDD drive bays

Back: 2 x 2.5" SATA 6G

N/A
4 x 10G SFP+ 6 x GbE RJ45
N/A

1 x M.2 NVMe 2280 M key 1 x GbE RJ45 and 8 x 10G SFP+ N/A

Networking
I/O Interface Expansion Cooling

Controllers
NIC Module Slot / Blade IPMI Management Port Reset Button Console USB
PCIe
mini-PCIe / NVME Processor System

i350 / XL710
N/A IPMI Chip Onboard N/A Yes 1 x DB9 2 x USB 2.0, 2 x USB 3.0 2x PCI-E*16 FH/FL + 1x PCI-E*8 HH/HL M.2 PCI-e SSD Optional Passive CPU Heatsink 6x individual hot-swappable cooling fans with smart fan

Environmental Parameters
Miscellaneous
Dimensions

Temperature
Humidity (RH) LCD Module Watchdog Internal RTC with Li Battery Dimensions (WxHxD) Weight

0~40ºC / -20~70ºC
5~90% non condensing / 5~95%, non condensing N/A Yes Yes 445 x 88 x 785 mm TBD

1 x Intel i210
N/A 1 x onboard IPMI port N/A Yes 1 x RJ-45 1 x USB 3.0
1 x PCI-E*16 FH 3/4L
1x M.2 NVMe 2280 M key CPU heatsink with fan duct
5 x smart fans
-40~65ºC Operating -40~70ºC Non-Operating 5 ~ 90% Operating 5 ~ 95% Non-Operating N/A Yes Yes 438 x 300 x 44 mm 5 kg

Power

Watts / Type Input

Approvals & Compliance

1200W 1+1 Redundant PSU AC 100V~240V @47~63Hz CE/FCC Class A

400W 1+1 Redundant PSU -57 VDC ~ -40VDC dual input feed CE/FCC Class A, UL

HTCA-6200
2U Rackmount
Depends on compute blade specification
Depends on compute blade specification Linux Kernel 2.6 or above Depends on compute blade specification Depends on compute blade specification Depends on compute blade specification
2 x 2.5" Swappable HDD drive bays
Depends on compute blade specification Blade 1~2: Switch Fabric Blade or Ethernet I/O Blade N/A
Depends on blade specification (HLM series)
2 x Blades 1 x onboard IPMI port 1 x Management port Yes 1 x RJ-45 1 x USB 2.0
N/A
N/A CPU heatsink with fan duct
5 x hot-swappable cooling fans per M/B
0 ~ 40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating 5 ~ 90% Operating 5 ~ 95% Non-Operating 2 x 20 characters Yes Yes 438 x 88 x 685 mm 26 kg
AC 2000 watt N+1 Redundant /each DC 1600 watt N+1 Redundant /each PM bus support AC 85 ~ 264 V DC -36V ~ -72V CE Class A, FCC Class A, RoHS, NEBS design compliance

28 www.lannerinc.com

4U Rackmount

HTCA-E400

Intel® Xeon® Processor Scalable Family (Ice Lake-SP)

Depends on compute blade specification Linux Kernel 2.6 or above Depending on compute sled Depending on compute sled Depending on compute sled

Depending on compute sled

Depending on compute sled
Switch Sled
N/A
Broadcom BCM5396
2 x Sled 1 x onboard IPMI port 1 x Management port Yes 1 x RJ-45 N/A
Depending on compute sled
N/A CPU heatsink with fan duct 5 x hot-swappable cooling fans per 1U Compute Sled 2 x hot-swappable cooling fans per 2U Compute Sled 0 ~ 40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating 5 ~ 90% Operating 5 ~ 95% Non-Operating N/A Yes Yes 438 x 88 x 685 mm 27.5 kg
AC 3000W 1+1 Redundant PSU DC 1600W 220V 1+1 Redundant PSU

DC -36V ~ -72V CE Class A, FCC Class A

4U Rackmount

HTCA-6400

Depends on compute blade specification

Depends on compute blade specification Linux Kernel 2.6 or above Depends on compute blade specification Depends on compute blade specification Depends on compute blade specification

6U Rackmount

HTCA-6600

Depends on compute blade specification

Depends on compute blade specification Linux Kernel 2.6 or above Depends on compute blade specification Depends on compute blade specification Depends on compute blade specification

8 x 2.5" Swappable HDD drive bays

6 x 3.5" Swappable HDD drive bays

Depends on compute blade specification Blade 1~2: Switch Fabric Blade Blade 3~4: Ethernet I/O Blade N/A
Depends on blade specification (HLM series)
4 x Blades 1 x onboard IPMI ports 1 x Management port Yes 1 x RJ-45 1 x USB 2.0
N/A
N/A CPU heatsink with fan duct
5 x hot-swappable cooling fans per M/B
0 ~ 40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating 5 ~ 90% Operating 5 ~ 95% Non-Operating 2 x 20 characters Yes Yes 438 x 177.3 x 685 mm 40 kg
AC 2000 watt N+1 Redundant /each DC 1600 watt N+1 Redundant /each PM bus support
AC 85 ~ 264 V DC -36V ~ -72V
CE Class A, FCC Class A, RoHS, NEBS design compliance

Depends on compute blade specification Blade 1~2: Switch Fabric Blade Blade 3~6: Ethernet I/O Blade N/A
Depends on blade specification (HLM series)
6 x Blades 1 x onboard IPMI ports 1 x Management port Yes 1 x RJ-45 1 x USB 2.0
N/A
N/A CPU heatsink with fan duct
5 x hot-swappable cooling fans per M/B
0 ~ 40ºC Operating -20~70ºC Non-Operating 5 ~ 90% Operating 5 ~ 95% Non-Operating 2 x 20 characters Yes Yes 438 x 265.9 x 685 mm 55 kg
AC 1200 watt N+1 Redundant /each DC 1010 watt N+1 Redundant /each PM bus support
AC 85 ~ 264 V DC -36V ~ -72V
CE Class A, FCC Class A, RoHS, NEBS design compliance

www.lannerinc.com 29

Corporate
Lanner Electronics Inc. 7F, No.173, Sec.2, Datong Rd. Xizhi District, New Taipei City 221, Taiwan T: +886-2-8692-6060 F: +886-2-8692-6101 E: contact@lannerinc.com
USA
Lanner Electronics Inc. 47790 Westinghouse Drive Fremont, CA 94539 T: +1-855-852-6637 F: +1-510-979-0689 E: sales_us@lannerinc.com

Taiwan
 221 1737 T: +886-2-8692-6060 F: +886-2-8692-6101 E: contact@lannerinc.com
China
 33  T: +86 010-82795600 F: +86 010-62963250 E: services@ls-china.com.cn

Canada
LEI Technology Canada Ltd 3160A Orlando Drive Mississauga, ON L4V 1R5 T: +1 877-813-2132 F: +1 905-362-2369 E: sales_ca@lannerinc.com

Europe
Lanner Europe B.V. Wilhelmina van Pruisenweg 104 2595 AN The Hague, The Netherlands T: +31 70-701-3256 E: sales_eu@lannerinc.com

Please verify specifications before quoting. All product specifications are subject to change without notice. No part of this publication may be reproduced in any form or by any means, electronic, photocopying or otherwise without prior written permission of Lanner Electronics Inc. All brand names and product names are the trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. © Lanner Electronics Inc., 2022 www.lannerinc.com

