Open Source Projects
Replicated believes that open source is the heart of excellent infrastructure software. We've built several open source projects, some  of which are core to our product and others which are complimentary.


Core Projects

These projects are foundational to our business. They drive the end-user experience to manage and administrate applications supplied by Replicated-enabled software vendors.

A sophisticated containerized platform for delivering, and then maintaining, Kubernetes-Off-The-Shelf software to existing K8s clusters. KOTS includes a kubectl plugin, in-cluster admin console, & integrations with several other Open Source projects including kURL, Troubleshoot, Prometheus, Velero, Helm and more.
kots.io /replicatedhq/kots

A two-part kubectl plugin that streamlines the troubleshooting process by collecting, analyzing, sanitizing & processing files, logs, output from commands & other actions specified by the vendor.
troubleshoot.sh /replicatedhq/troubleshoot
A CNCF-certified custom Kubernetes distribution builder that allows for the declarative management of various Kubernetes add-ons on top of Kubernetes. kURL is leveraged in KOTS to provide an embedded Kubernetes cluster for end customers who do not have an existing cluster to deploy to.
kurl.sh /replicatedhq/kurl
replicated.com contact@replicated.com ReplicatedHQ

Other Projects

These projects are built and maintained by Replicated because we needed these solutions, and we suspect you may too.

A CNCF Sandbox Project
SCHEMAHERO

A database schema migration tool that converts DB schema definitions into migration scripts that can be run in any environment.

schemahero.io

/schemahero/schemahero

A kubectl plugin that scans & identifies outdated cluster images by comparing the content sha to the original image repo.

outdated.sh

/replicatedhq/outdated

A kubectl plugin for analyzing & reconnecting forked helm charts to the original upstream while preserving local changes.

unfork.io

/replicatedhq/unfork

Dockerfile Linter

Helps to create better and more portable Docker images.

fromlatest.io

/replicatedhq/dockerfilelint

ttl.sh

An anonymous, ephemeral Docker container registry that uses the official Docker Registry image.

ttl.sh

/replicatedhq/ttl.sh

= kubernetes.slack.com/channels/*project name

= github.com

replicated.com contact@replicated.com

ReplicatedHQ

Contributor Projects

We also serve as regular contributors to these projects we rely heavily on or integrate with.

Kustomize introduces a template-free way to customize application configuration that simplifies the use of off-the-shelf applications.


kustomize.io

/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/

Velero (formerly Heptio Ark) gives you tools to back up and restore your Kubernetes cluster resources and persistent volumes.
/vmware-tanzu/velero

replicated.com contact@replicated.com

ReplicatedHQ

