Key Benefits  Full integration with KnowBe4's
Phish Alert Button allows automatic prioritization of emails that are not threats
 Cut through the IR-inbox noise
and respond to the most dangerous threats more quickly and efficiently
 Free up IR resources to identify
and manage the 90% of messages that are either spam or legitimate email
 See clusters or groups of
messages based on patterns that can help you identify a widespread phishing attack against your organization
 Meet critical SLAs within
your organization to process and prioritize threats and legitimate emails
 Automated email response
templates let you quickly communicate back to your employees about the emails they need in order to continue working
 You can create custom workflows
for tasks such as prioritization and alerting so that the IR team can focus on the right messages

Identify and respond to email threats faster with PhishER
Because phishing remains the most widely used cyber attack vector, most end users report a lot of email messages they "think" could be potentially malicious to your incident response team. Whether or not you step employees through security awareness training doesn't change the fact that your users are likely already reporting potentially dangerous emails in some fashion within your organization. The increase of this email traffic ... can present a new problem!
With the firehose of spam and malicious email that attack your network, some 10-15% of these make it past your filters. With only approximately 1 in 10 user-reported emails being verified as actually malicious, how do you not only handle the high-risk phishing attacks and threats, but also effectively manage the other 90% of user-reported messages accurately and efficiently? PhishERTM.
What is PhishER?
PhishER is the key ingredient of an essential security workstream. It's your lightweight SOAR platform to orchestrate your threat response and manage the high volume of potentially malicious email messages reported by your users. And, with automatic prioritization of emails, PhishER helps your InfoSec and Security Operations teams cut through the inbox noise and respond to the most dangerous threats more quickly.
Additionally, with PhishER you are able to automate the workstream of the 90% of reported emails that are not threats. Incident Response (IR) orchestration can easily deliver immediate efficiencies to your security team, but the potential value is much greater than that. With the right strategy and planning, your organization can build a fully orchestrated and intelligent SOC that can contend with today's threats.
PhishER enables a critical workstream to help your IR teams work together to mitigate the phishing threat and is suited for any organization that wants to automatically prioritize and manage potentially malicious messages accurately and fast! PhishER is available as a stand-alone product or as an add-on option for KnowBe4 customers.
Why Choose PhishER?
PhishER is a simple and easy-to-use web-based platform with critical workstream functionality that serves as your phishing emergency room to identify and respond to user-reported messages. PhishER helps you prioritize and analyze what messages are legitimate and what messages are not--quickly.
With PhishER, your team can prioritize, analyze, and manage a large volume of email messages--fast! The goal is to help you and your team prioritize as many messages as possible automatically, with an opportunity to review PhishER's recommended focus points and take the actions you desire.

How PhishER Works

PhishER processes user-reported phishing and other suspicious emails by grouping and categorizing emails based on rules, tags, and actions. PhishML, the custom machine-learning module, analyzes messages and generates confidence values which are used to tag messages. PhishRIP helps you easily find and quarantine suspicious messages still sitting in mailboxes across your entire organization.

Automatic Message Prioritization
PhishER will help you prioritize every reported message into one of three categories: Clean, Spam, or Threat. Through rules you set, PhishER helps you develop your process to automatically prioritize as many messages as possible without human interaction.
With automatic prioritization of emails that are not threats, PhishER helps your team respond to the most dangerous threats more quickly. PhishER easily integrates with KnowBe4's email-add in button, Phish Alert and also works by forwarding to a dedicated mailbox.
Emergency Rooms
PhishER features "Emergency Rooms" to help you identify similar messages reported by your users. Emergency Rooms consist of pre-filtered views of your messages that are unresolved in your PhishER inbox. These messages are dynamically grouped by commonalities and include system pre-filtered views for messages by Top Subject Lines, Top Senders, Top Attachments, and Top URLs.
Each room is interactive, allowing you to drill down into filtered inbox views of the messages and take action across all associated messages at the same time.
SIEM Integrations
PhishER integrates into your organization by pushing data into popular SIEM platforms such as Splunk and QRadar. With support for multiple syslog destinations available it's also possible to push data into as many other systems as you like.

PhishMLTM
PhishML is a PhishER machine-learning module that helps you identify and assess the suspicious messages that are reported by your users, at the beginning of your message prioritization process. PhishML analyzes every message coming into the PhishER platform and gives you the info to make your prioritization process easier, faster, and more accurate.
PhishML is constantly learning based on the messages that are tagged, not only by you but also by other members of the PhishER user community! That means that the learning model is being fed new data to constantly improve its accuracy and more messages can be automatically prioritized based upon PhishER categorization, saving you even more time.
Simple and Advanced Rule Creation
You can create custom rules, use the built-in YARA-based system rules, or edit existing YARA rules. You can use system rules to help simplify your rules requirements or copy and modify to customize rules depending on the proficiency of your incident response team.
Data Enrichment Intelligence
PhishER integrates with external services like VirusTotal to help analyze attachments and malicious domains. Using URL Unwinding, PhishER automatically expands shortened URLs to help see the potential threat level of the final destination.
PhishRIPTM
PhishRIP is an email quarantine feature that integrates with Microsoft 365 and G Suite to help you remove, inoculate, and protect your organization against email threats so you can shut down active phishing attacks fast.
PhishRIP looks at any user-reported message in PhishER and searches and optionally quarantines similar messages across all your users' mailboxes. Any messages found are then ready for further analysis, quarantine, or permanent deletion by your incident response team.

For more information, visit: www.KnowBe4.com
KnowBe4, Inc. | 33 N Garden Ave, Suite 1200, Clearwater, FL 33755 | Tel: 855-KNOWBE4 (566-9234) | www.KnowBe4.com | Email: Sales@KnowBe4.com
 2020 KnowBe4, Inc. All rights reserved. Other product and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks and/or registered trademarks of their respective companies. V091720

