QUANTUM PLATFORM
Financially Quantify Enterprise Cyber Risk. On-Demand.
Quantum is designed to enable enterprise decision-makers to comprehensively manage their cyber risk exposure by empowering them to seamlessly drive actionable, financial quantified cyber risk decisions. On-demand.
From cyber security investments to risk transfer decisions, Quantum is built to ensure optimal returns on cybersecurity investments that strengthen a business's resilience to cyber attacks and third party service provider failures that could lead to significant financial losses.
Quantum's data driven approach is built from the ground-up to enable evolving, objective, and frictionless financial cyber risk quantifications that deliver the CISO, CRO, the Board and other decision makers the answers they need on-demand with the click of a button.
The Quantum platform transforms cyber security data into financially quantified cyber risk management decisions, leveraging the same advanced cyber risk models and technologies trusted by cyber insurers and reinsurers worldwide.

ONE PLATFORM. MULTIPLE DECISIONS.
Communicate Cyber Risk to the Board in Financial Terms - Enhance the board and C-Suite's decision-making process by financially quantifying cyber risk.
Justify Cybersecurity Investments - Prioritize and justify cybersecurity investments that maximize risk reduction.
Optimize Cyber Insurance and Risk Transfer Placements - Identify gaps between risk mitigation options and cyber insurance spending to maximize your risk management decisions and strengthen business resilience.
Measure ROI of Cyber Security Programs - Assess the ROI of your cybersecurity program and stress test it based on potential risk mitigation actions, thereby supporting better resource allocation. Analyze your Cyber Risk Exposure to 3rd Party Vendors - Financially quantify cyber risk within your supply chain. Gain insights Into 3rd and 4th party exposure.
Meet Governance, Risk & Compliance Standards - Meet increasing demands from regulators to continuously quantify and manage cyber risk exposure.
Conduct M&A Cyber Due Diligence - Analyze and understand the cyber risk exposure of target companies before you transact.

Contact Us: contact@kovrr.com

2022 © Kovrr, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

WHAT MAKES QUANTUM DIFFERENT?

ON-DEMAND INSIGHTS.
Kovrr's cyber risk management technology is designed to deliver consistent insights on-demand, when you need them. Therefore eliminating reliance on slow, subjective and resource intensive processes.
ACTIONABLE FINANCIALLY QUANTIFIED RISK MITIGATION RECOMMENDATIONS
Get actionable financially quantified risk mitigation recommendations into which security controls you should introduce or invest more in to reduce your cyber risk exposure in the most effective way. Before you spend a thing.
INSURANCE GRADE CYBER RISK MODELS
Kovrr's unique modeling approach utilizes multiple risk models that leverage access to a wide variety of loss data sources including cyber insurance claims data. Furthermore, these models are continuously validated at scale, and are designed to differentiate between a tailored set of targeted and systematic cyber events that can impact your specific business.

ANALYZE ANY BUSINESS. AT ANY LEVEL.
Perform a financial cyber risk quantification at the granularity of your choice that can include analysis at the: Group, subsidiary and business unit levels, for a consistent, scalable and holistic view of cyber risk across the entire organization.
LEVERAGE INTERNAL CYBERSECURITY TELEMETRY
Utilize your own internal cybersecurity data for a comprehensive CRQ view, either through direct API integrations or via data export.
EVOLVING CYBER SECURITY POSTURE ANALYSIS
Automatically assess your businesses evolving cyber posture and technographic profile by analyzing millions of data points that cover an organization's technological infrastructure, 3rd party service providers, and it's assets, by analyzing the external attack surface and internal telemetry.
CONTINUOUS CYBER THREAT INTELLIGENCE
Analyze the evolving risk to your business with a continual stream of global cyber threat Intelligence that can analyze the probability of hundreds of thousands of cyber events that could financially impact your business.

BENCHMARK TO YOUR INDUSTRY PEERS
Quantitatively benchmark and compare your cyber risk exposure. Benchmark to your industry peers and internally compare between different business entities in a consistent and measurable way.

Contact Us: WWW.KOVRR.COM

2022 © Kovrr, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

