CA AGNOSTIC CERTIFICATE LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT
Manage Public and Private Certificates Issued by Sectigo and Other CAs From a Single Platform
Sectigo Certificate Manager is a universal platform purpose-built to issue and manage the lifecycles of public and private digital certificates to secure every human and machine identity across the enterprise, all from a single platform. With SCM, customers can automate the issuance and management of Sectigo certificates, alongside their certificates from other publicly trusted Certificate Authorities (CAs) and existing private CAs, like Microsoft CA.
Leading Innovation in Certificate Lifecycle Management
Industry-leading certificate portfolio Modern cloud deployment Integrations and workflows with existing technology providers Direct integration into Microsoft CA CA agnostic to issue and manage certificates from other public and private CAs Operate multiple CAs to maintain redundancy Advanced automation features Enable new and emerging certificate-based use cases Single platform management across all certificates

Universal Platform for Orchestration & Management of Certificates & Keys

Continuous Discovery
Search and discover all certificates deployed across the network from any certificate provider to make sure they comply to policy. SCM provides tools to run continuous scans to identify certificates at risk of expiring and provides automated alerts to help customers mitigate risks.

Certificate Issuance
Instantly issue and deploy certificates to approved users and devices without the need to manually install the certificate--issue public and private certificates from Sectigo, Microsoft, and other CAs.

Diverse Certificate Portfolio
Leverage Sectigo's portfolio of public
and private certificates to fit any use
case, including:  TLS/SSL certificates  User and device certificates  Document signing certificates  Code signing certificates  S/MIME certificates  eIDAS certificates  SSH certificates

Automated Lifecycle Management
Advanced automation features using the latest standards, including EST, REST API, ACME, SCEP. Automate the entire certificate lifecycle from issuance, duration, and renewal of any public and private certificate.

Key Management
Manage your portfolio of keys directly in the SCM platform alongside your certificates. Secure the cryptographic keys from creation, exchange, storage, deletion, and refreshing to maintain standards.

Policies and Compliance
Enforce consistent corporate policies across all your certificates from any CA. Maintain compliance standards and ensure the organization's policies are governed for every user and device.

www.sectigo.com

Sectigo Certificate Manager I  Sectigo 2021. All rights reserved.

Secure & Manage Every Human and Machine Identity

WHY DO THE WORLD'S LARGEST BRANDS CHOOSE SECTIGO?

Single Platform Admin
A single pane of glass to manage both public and private certificates issued from Sectigo and other Certificate Authorities, including Microsoft CA.

Certificate Management in the Cloud
The gold standard for enabling automation and perimeterless security across cloud and multi-cloud environments. Lower cost of deployment. Increase the speed of threat discovery. Control over all digital identities.

Enable New Use Cases
Certificates are necessary to secure identities and enable new enterprise use cases such as Zero Trust, passwordless authentication, remote identity validation, document signing, RPA, etc.

Integrations
Integrations with leading technology providers that give customers deployment flexibility and customizations to work within their unique environments.

Zero-Touch Deployment
Advanced capabilities to automatically install user and device certificates with a single click.

Dedicated Support
Industry-leading customer support with white glove service from onboarding to continued account services.

TRUSTED BY LEADING BRANDS GLOBALLY

Industry Recognition
Sectigo Certificate Manager has been recognized for its new technologies and innovation used to help customers solve real world problems.

About Sectigo
Sectigo is a leading provider of digital certificates and automated certificate lifecycle management solutions to leading brands globally. As one of the longest-standing and largest Certificate Authorities (CA), Sectigo has over 20 years of experience delivering innovative security solutions to over 700,000 businesses worldwide. With certificates in use across all touch-points in today's enterprise - from servers to devices, email, DevOps, IoT, and more - Sectigo helps you save time, save money and reduce risks with our award-winning certificate management solution.

www.sectigo.com

Sectigo Certificate Manager I  Sectigo 2021. All rights reserved.

