about tines
Adtoifrafaeudrteiconamtllaya
ptpiornoach
The world's best companies ­ from startups to the Fortune 10 ­ trust Tines to manage their missioncritical workflows. Designed for and by security practitioners, Tines helps you automate workflows of endless complexity by breaking them down into simple steps.
Trusted by the world's leading security teams

about tines
Key benefits

Egnratdereprise-
Aannelldetdhf.eeactoumrepslyiaonuce

Ranuynws here
From our mona-npargeemdiscelso.ud to

Flexible
Oaoufuturoscmeuacsttaeosmedsoe.zresns

Robust
Fwaanitudhltam-lteoortnleinirtgaonrbitnu,gilt in.

CEdoimtiomnunity
Start on our gfreeneeprolauns. always-

Focused and powerful
We relentlessly focus on automation, allowing you to directly integrate with the best-in-class tools you already use ­ including internal or rare ones. If it speaks HTTP, Tines can talk to it.
For the whole team
Automation works best when those who own the process and build and manage it ­ not some faraway development team. So Tines is no-code, designed for the whole team to use and contribute to.
Example use cases
Phishing Response, Endpoint Detection, SIEM Alerts, Abuse Triage, Vulnerability Management, Threat Intel, Suspicious Login ­ and many, many more.

"The thing we like about Tines is the flexibility of the product. We can hook it up to any of our tools. Rather than having to buy a specific tool that works with Tines, it works with whatever we already have. If it has an API, Tines can integrate with it."
JOopeel nPtearbezle-,SSaenccuhreitzy, Engineer

Ready to get started?
CsatrdaeeratmtaeuoatoofrmrdeaeistciCnuogsm.sYmoonuuencoiatfny oEaudlsriotpiocanoidnatpcalcacontusun.stinf oyowua'dndlike

tines.com hello@tines.com calendly.com/talk-to-tines

