Secureworks® TaegisTM Vulnerability Detection and Response (VDR):
Secureworks' modern vulnerability management solution minimizes the manual effort and eliminates the guesswork from conventional VM

Taegis VDR offers a holistic view of a network's vulnerabilities across machines, connected devices, and web applications. This allows Secureworks to deliver a significantly more meaningful risk score for each vulnerability, one that accounts for each vulnerability's unique circumstances, surrounding environment, and operational context.
Featured resources:
The Importance of Context to Prioritizing Vulnerabilities Context is key when prioritizing vulnerabilities. Learn why standard vulnerability prioritization models often don't accurately address risk - one of the issues Taegis VDR addresses. READ NOW
How to Make Vulnerability Management Work For You Do you ever feel like VM is working against you? You're not alone. In this on-demand webinar, you'll hear how using machine learning can lead to a risk-based vulnerability management approach that helps you identify and prioritize the risks present in your environment. WATCH NOW

Secureworks' solution collects data on, and analyzes, over 40 factors to generate a meaningful priority list from 1 to n of all vulnerabilities on an enterprise network.
Secureworks customers can build multiple remediation plans and assess how effective each will be before committing resources.

Secureworks Taegis VDR In Depth Get answers to common questions about how Taegis VDR is the robust solution organizations need. Learn how Taegis VDR delivers contextual prioritization, automation of previously manual tasks, and a machine-learning, self-learning system to reduce the burden of vulnerability management. LEARN MORE

If your organization needs immediate assistance call our Global Incident Response Hotline (24x7x365). +1-770-870-6343

For more information, call 1-877-838-7947 to speak to a Secureworks security specialist secureworks.com

Secureworks has developed a machinelearning based approach to automating the identification of unique assets, a previously manual effort reserved for the most experienced and capable pen testers.

About Secureworks Secureworks® (NASDAQ: SCWX) is a global cybersecurity leader that protects customer progress with Secureworks® TaegisTM, a cloud-native security analytics platform built on 20+ years of real-world threat intelligence and research, improving customers' ability to detect advanced threats, streamline and collaborate on investigations, and automate the right actions.
Availability varies by region. ©2021 SecureWorks, Inc. All rights reserved.

