CASE STUDY
How Quantropi Quantum-Secured a Remote Workforce VPN Solution

VERTICAL · Cloud Security
· Virtual Private Networks (VPN)
· Secure Remote Workforces
CHALLENGE · How to quantum
securely transmit true random numbers over today's Internet
SOLUTION · QiSpaceTM SaaS Platform · SEQURTM Quantum
Entropy as a Service (QEaaS)
BENEFITS · Achieve full security
potential of AES for data at rest and in motion
· SDK for speed to market
· Significant cost savings compared to hardware alternatives

Overview
The cryptographic threat from bad actors in today's digital society is real. Add to that the looming threat from quantum computers, and the need for strong cybersecurity solutions has never been more urgent. With a pandemic raging and work-from-home trending, Quantropi joined DLS Technology Corporation and Wedge Networks as part of an IRAP (Industrial Research Assistance Program) cybersecurity pilot project to develop an integrated, end-to-end solution to protect data in motion and at rest ­ a quantum-secure remote workforce solution. The consortium leveraged Quantropi's QiSpaceTM platform, and its SEQURTM Quantum Entropy as a Service (QEaaS) product to instantly achieve the full quantum security potential of the group's encryption algorithms.

Challenge

DLS offers a product called vKey, a bootable endpoint solution

that enables a secure work environment. Meanwhile, Wedge

Networks' ARP product helps detect network threats in real

time. Both products leverage AES-256 encryption, which

requires true random keys to leverage its full security potential.

For the consortium to achieve its mandate of developing a

solution immune to the quantum threat, it needed a source of

true random -- and a secure way to transmit it.



Why are random numbers important?
An encryption key is a random number used to determine how the algorithm will encrypt data. But if the same key is used to encrypt identical data, the encrypted form will also be identical. This lowers security and creates vulnerabilities to exploitation, such as replay attacks. To achieve the full security potential of encryption algorithms such as AES, true random keys must be used. Quantropi is the only company on the planet providing true random numbers transmitted quantum securely over today's Internet.

V12/2021.10.15

V24/2021.03.25

www.quantropi.com

Proof of Concept
The consortium leveraged Quantropi's QiSpaceTM platform -- specifically its SEQURTM product -- to upgrade and harden AES encryption. By integrating QiSpaceTM with DLS's vKey Device Manager, Quantropi's SEQURTM quantum-securely distributed strong random numbers to DLS over the public Internet. DLS utilized SEQURTM entropy to make the true random keys required for quantum-secure disk encryption on vKey. Together with Wedge Networks, Quantropi developed the architecture to integrate QiSpaceTM with Wedge Network's VPN offering, thereby enabling on-demand quantum-secure session key establishment through SEQURTM. In both instances, no additional endpoint hardware investments are required.

"Quantropi's QiSpaceTM and SEQURTM Quantum Entropy platforms supply true random numbers used for data-at-rest encryption of vKey; DLS' flagship remote workforce product. Highly recommended.
-- Patrick Nadeau Director of Sales and Marketing
DLS Technology Corporation

QiSpaceTM Cloud Quantum
Entropy (QE)

QiSpaceTM Enterprise DLS

Encryption Keys to vDM

Encryption Keys to vKey

QiSpaceTM Enterprise Wedge Networks

VPN Server

VPN Client

What's next?
Would your enterprise benefit from quantum entropy to harden its cybersecurity defences today and protect against the quantum threats of tomorrow? Become a QiSpaceTM Beta Partner today.
And Bring it on.

Conclusion
By leveraging Quantropi's QiSpaceTM platform and SEQURTM, DLS, Wedge Networks and Quantropi were able to meet their challenging mandate to develop a remote workforce VPN solution that is secure from quantum computer attacks. Now, remote workers accessing confidential platforms or applications from home or other remote locations, can have the peace of mind of knowing their data and privacy is secure from any classical or quantum attacks, today and forever. That's because Quantropi is the only company in the world capable of quantum-secure entropy and key distribution via today's Internet, over any distance, at network speeds.

www.quantropi.com

