Access Control &
Proptech Solutions
for the Built World

A Simpler Way
to Manage & Understand
Your Space

Simply Powerful. Powerfully Simple.
Smart spaces start with access control. Brivo gives you the power to elevate the experience you provide to employees, residents and customers who pass through your properties without compromising safety. You get more than access control with Brivo. You get incomparable insight into the usage of your space, possible security threats as well as savings opportunities.
One Platform to Manage Your Portfolio
The Brivo platform provides you unparalleled portfolio visibility. On one screen, you can monitor a single facility or regional and global assets all at once. Brivo's simplicity doesn't stop there. You can connect video surveillance and visitor management to better manage your facilities. With Brivo you get simply better security.
Provide More Choice & Flexibility
Thermostats, workplace management, and video surveillance are just a few examples of intelligent environments. Our complete solution integrates with hundreds of thirdparty devices, applications, and platforms. Brivo's open API allows you to manage your facilities the way you want, with the tools you want.
Putting More Insights in Sight
In today's world data is vital. But more crucially, you need to understand the facts to act. Brivo has changed not just security but also portfolio management. With Brivo, you can access, manage, and trend your asset data all in one location. Our technology empowers everyone with data, from security guards to SOC managers to CEOs. Insights like: access events, anomalous behaviors, foot traffic patterns and space utilization trends.

23+ MILLION
USERS AND GROWING

Brivo Leads the Way

10+ YEARS
OF CYBER AUDITS

GLOBAL REACH SECURING FACILITIES
IN 40+ COUNTRIES

FORTUNE SECURING 200
500 FORTUNE 500 CUSTOMERS

Brivo is
Smart Solutions for Any Business

ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS To manage security risks, compliance, and employee access, you need visibility across
offices and employees anywhere. Brivo ensures employee health and safety.

MULTIFAMILY SOLUTIONS Attract and retain residents with smart,
safe communities. Brivo provides a unified mobile resident experience from common areas to smart home amenities.

COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE Protect your assets while providing tenants with modern experiences they'll love. Brivo gives you portfolio-wide visibility and uniform access control.

SMALL BUSINESS SOLUTIONS Your business is your dream. With Brivo you can focus on your interests, not alarms or
keys. Manage your company from a client meeting or your kid's soccer game.

VACATION RENTAL Rental unit management has never been this easy until Brivo. Get energy savings and simplify check-in and check-out with
automated access codes.

Copyright 2021 Brivo Systems LLC or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Brivo and the Brivo logos are registered trademarks or trademarks of Brivo Systems LLC or its affiliates in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

Contact us: sales@brivo.com
1.833.462.7486

