SOLUTIONS BRIEF
CyberArk Workforce Identity

BENEFITS
Defend Against Attacks
Protect against data breaches or malicious attacks from lost, stolen, or compromised credentials. Defend against impersonation, phishing, spear-phishing, socialengineering and other exploits.
Improve User Experiences
Provide fast, frictionless access for remote workers and on-the-go users. Eliminate password sprawl and fatigue, and VPN hassles.
Drive Operational Efficiencies
Automate lifecycle management. Provide self-service tools for users and approval flows. Free up administrative staff to focus on core business tasks.
Satisfy Audit and Compliance
Increase visibility and streamline audits. Avoid regulatory fines and reputational damage.

Enterprises are adopting cloud-based applications and infrastructure to accelerate business agility and simplify operations. The cloud fundamentally transforms the way businesses deliver and access applications, creating new opportunities for adversaries and new challenges for security organizations.
CyberArk Identity is designed from the ground up to protect today's cloud-centric digital enterprises. The solution portfolio lets organizations securely extend all their business applications and IT services to remote workers and on-the-go users while delivering exceptional end-user experience. CyberArk Identity helps enterprises defend against attacks, drive operational efficiencies, and improve compliance.
CHALLENGES
Digital transformation poses a variety of challenges for IT security organizations including:
· Securing the perimeterless enterprise. Traditional perimeter-based security models, designed to protect conventional on-premises IT infrastructure and office-based workers, aren't well suited for the digital era. Organizations must introduce new systems and practices, such as Zero Trust, to safeguard cloud infrastructure, protect SaaS applications, while providing secure access to existing on-premises resources to remote workers and mobile users..
· Managing accounts and passwords. Today's businesses are powered by dozens or even hundreds of different applications. Managing accounts and passwords is a challenge for IT administrators and end-users alike. Enterprises must find ways to eliminate password fatigue, prevent risky behavior, and streamline the administration of user accounts, credentials, and privileges.
· Enabling remote workforce. Today's workers conduct business from any place, at any time, using any device. To be fully productive they need fast, frictionless access to all their applications and services whether working from home, the office, or the road. Businesses must find ways to secure remote workers and safeguard on-premises and cloud-based IT systems and data without hindering user satisfaction.
SOLUTION
CyberArk Identity helps today's businesses overcome the unique user authentication, authorization, and auditing challenges accompanying digital transformation. The services included in CyberArk Identity solution streamline operations and gives workers simple and secure access to all their enterprise resources--on-premises, cloud, hybrid--from any location, using any device.
www.cyberark.com

The integrated CyberArk Identity solution includes:
CyberArk Identity Single Sign-On CyberArk Identity Single Sign-On (SSO) gives workers convenient one-click access to all their enterprise applications using a single set of credentials. The solution helps eliminate password sprawl and fatigue, improve user experiences, and avoid risky workarounds like using common credentials, or recording passwords on paper or spreadsheets. The solution also centralizes, unifies, and simplifies access administration, reducing help desk interactions and operations expenses.
CyberArk Identity Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication CyberArk Identity Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) helps businesses avoid data loss and other risks posed by compromised or stolen credentials. The solution supports a variety of authentication mechanisms, including passwordless factors, and protects a range of enterprise identities and resources, such as applications, infrastructure, and endpoints. Unlike traditional MFA solutions, CyberArk Identity Adaptive MFA uses AI-powered behavioral analytics and contextual information to determine which authentication factors to apply to a particular user in a specific situation, improving end-user satisfaction and productivity.
CyberArk Identity Lifecycle Management CyberArk Identity Lifecycle Management (LCM) lets administrators efficiently onboard and offboard users, and manage their access privileges throughout their course of employment. The solution includes self-service tools for users and approving managers, as well as administrative reports to help security teams track access activity, investigate incidents, and support compliance audits. Integration with leading HR systems, Identity Governance and Administration solutions, and directory services simplifies new-hire provisioning and eliminates manually-intensive, error-prone processes.
CyberArk Identity App Gateway CyberArk Identity App Gateway lets users securely access traditional applications hosted in corporate data centers using the same credentials and authentication methods they use to access cloud apps. The solution provides strong security and easy access without VPN hassles, expenses, or support burdens. Easy to implement, CyberArk Identity App Gateway can be deployed without modifying application code or reconfiguring firewall rules.
CyberArk Identity Directory Services CyberArk Identity Directory Services lets organizations centrally manage enterprise IT directories at scale. The solution integrates with a variety of popular on-premises and cloud-based directory services including Microsoft Active Directory, Azure Active Directory, and LDAP Directories. An extensible schema makes it easy to maintain information related to users, computers, endpoints, mobile and server objects, and other elements using a unified data store and common administrative tools.
CyberArk Identity User Behavior Analytics CyberArk Identity User Behavior Analytics uses AI and Machine Learning to collect, analyze, and visualize user behavior and threat data in real-time. The solution includes interactive dashboards to help administrators easily assess risk, reporting tools to help administrators investigate security incidents and support audits, and real-time alerts to notify administrators of suspicious activity. It also provides webhooks to feed alerts to third-party tools like ServiceNow.
WHY CYBERARK
CyberArk is the global leader in privileged access security, a critical layer of IT security to protect data, infrastructure and assets across the enterprise, in the cloud and throughout the DevOps pipeline. CyberArk delivers the industry's most complete solution to reduce risk created by privileged credentials and secrets. To learn more, visit www.cyberark.com.
©CyberArk Software Ltd. All rights reserved. No portion of this publication may be reproduced in any form or by any means without the express written consent of CyberArk Software. CyberArk®, the CyberArk logo and other trade or service names appearing above are registered trademarks (or trademarks) of CyberArk Software in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Any other trade and service names are the property of their respective owners. U.S., 07.21. Doc. 272215 CyberArk believes the information in this document is accurate as of its publication date. The information is provided without any express, statutory, or implied warranties and is subject to change without notice.
www.cyberark.com

