Top Security and Risk Management Trends for 2019 and Beyond
Steve Riley Sr. Director, Analyst--Cloud Security
© 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates. This publication may not be reproduced or distributed in any form without Gartner's prior written permission. It consists of the opinions of Gartner's research organization, which should not be construed as statements of fact. While the information contained in this publication has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, Gartner disclaims all warranties as to the accuracy, completeness or adequacy of such information. Although Gartner research may address legal and financial issues, Gartner does not provide legal or investment advice and its research should not be construed or used as such. Your access and use of this publication are governed by Gartner's Usage Policy. Gartner prides itself on its reputation for independence and objectivity. Its research is produced independently by its research organization without input or influence from any third party. For further information, see "Guiding Principles on Independence and Objectivity."

3.5x
Increase in organizations with 50% of their data in the cloud 2018-2020
1 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

93%
are dealing with rogue cloud app usage
2 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

***

85%
Are interested in replacing passwords with new forms of authentication

3 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

More than 80%
of enterprise web traffic will be encrypted through 2019
4 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

The Controls of Security Are Rapidly Shifting and Your Focus Needs to Shift to New Approaches
5 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

External Mega Trends Beyond Your Control

Skills Gap Attackers

Your Organization

6 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Regulation and Privacy
Cloud Application Scale and Complexity

Internal Mega Trends that Support Success
Perfect prevention and authentication is not possible -- Plan, Detect, Respond Cloud delivery is one way to address the skills and scale gap Need to step up our game in communication
7 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

2019 Trends
8 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Trend 1
9 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

1.5 million
Unfilled global cybersecurity roles expected by 2020
Source: "Solving the IoT Security Talent Gap: Where You Look Matters," (G00347310); "Data Scientist Jobs: Where Does the Big Data Talent Gap Lie?" IT Pro
10 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Trend 1: Fusion of Products and Services
11 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Trend 2
12 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

33% increasing investment in cloud
35% decreasing investments in datacenter
Source: Oracle and KPMG Cloud Threat Report 2019
13 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Trend 2: Cloud Center of Excellence Emerges
14 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Four Primary Areas of Investment

Cloud Security Posture
Management (CSPM)

Cloud Workload Protection Platforms (CWPPs)

Cloud Access Security Brokers
(CASB)

Chief Cloud Architect & SecDevOps

Infrastructure Platform
15 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Software

People & Process

Trend 3
16 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

49%
Expect to store the majority of their data in a public cloud by 2020
Source: Oracle and KPMG Cloud Threat Report 2019
17 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

71%
Report that the majority of their cloud-resident data is sensitive
Source: Oracle and KPMG Cloud Threat Report 2019
18 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Trend 3: Data Security Governance Framework
19 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

DSG Framework

Don't Start Here!

Crypto

DCAP

DLP

CASB

IAM

UEBA

DBMS Big Data Files Cloud Endpoint
20 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

4 Implement Security Products

5

Orchestrate Policies for All Products

DSG Framework

Start Here!

Business Strategy

Business Stakeholders Governance Compliance IT Strategy

Risk Tolerance

1 Balance Business Needs Versus Risks

Data

Prioritize Datasets

People

Analytics

2

Identify, Prioritize and Manage Dataset Life Cycles

3 Define Data Security Policies

Crypto

DCAP

DLP

CASB

IAM

UEBA

DBMS Big Data Files Cloud Endpoint
21 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

4 Implement Security Products

5

Orchestrate Policies for All Products

Trend 4
22 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

83.9%
of phishing attacks targeted credentials for financial, email, cloud, payment, and SaaS services
Source: "2019 Phishing Trends & Intelligence Report: The Growing Social Engineering Threat," PhishLabs
23 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Trend 4: Dawn of Passwordless Authentication
24 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

35%
of smartphones will adopt more than one biometric authentication method by 2022
Source: "2019 Phishing Trends & Intelligence Report: The Growing Social Engineering Threat," PhishLabs
25 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Passwordless Authentication

Security Key by Yubico

26 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Trend 5
27 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

70%
of organizations are unable to process more than 60% of their security event data.
Source: Oracle and KPMG Cloud Threat Report 2019
28 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Trend 5: Security Operations Center Revitalization
29 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

50%
of all SOCs will transform into modern SOCs with integrated incident response, threat intelligence and threat hunting capabilities by 2022
30 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Biggest Challenges New
Staffing Adopting new tools SIEM vs. EDR Or Outsource
31 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Renewed
Integrating threat intel Consolidating alerts Establishing playbooks Automating workflow SOAR

Trend 6
32 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Trend 6: Carta Proliferates
33 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Examples
Intrusions detection inside the LAN
Internal protection for email

Risk Appetite

Remediate

Policy
CARTA

Assess

34 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Trend 7
35 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

90%
of large enterprises CISOs expected to present security issues to business leaders.
36 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Trend 7: Risk Appetite Statements Emerge
37 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

The Simple Story

We do these things

So you can help accomplish your goals

To support these principles

So we can help manage these risks
38 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Sample Risk Appetite Statement
National Rail System has no appetite for safety risk exposure that could result in injury or loss of life to public, passengers and workforce. All safety targets are met and improved year on year. In the pursuit of its growth and modernization objectives, the NRS is willing to accept risks that may result in some financial loss.
39 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

 Think Differently  Explore New
Options  Challenge
Assumptions
40 © 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates.

Top Security and Risk Management Trends for 2019 and Beyond
Steve Riley Sr. Director, Analyst--Cloud Security
© 2019 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and its affiliates. This publication may not be reproduced or distributed in any form without Gartner's prior written permission. It consists of the opinions of Gartner's research organization, which should not be construed as statements of fact. While the information contained in this publication has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, Gartner disclaims all warranties as to the accuracy, completeness or adequacy of such information. Although Gartner research may address legal and financial issues, Gartner does not provide legal or investment advice and its research should not be construed or used as such. Your access and use of this publication are governed by Gartner's Usage Policy. Gartner prides itself on its reputation for independence and objectivity. Its research is produced independently by its research organization without input or influence from any third party. For further information, see "Guiding Principles on Independence and Objectivity."

