Top 5 Reasons to Attend
1. Harness Your Data
There are no limits to what you can do with the massive streams of machine data generated by all your IT and business systems and technology infrastructure! Discover how you can:
§ Reduce risk by better understanding your operational and security challenges § Gain actionable visibility into your IT infrastructure and proactively prevent issues before they arise § Leverage your data to uncover new opportunities and give your company a competitive advantage
2. Learn, Share, Teach and Learn Some More!
With 165 technical sessions designed to enhance your knowledge of Splunk products and apps you'll come away armed with new ways to solve your most important data challenges. Learn how to:
§ Create charts, enrich data with lookups, create and use macros, build simple data models to power sophisticated pivots, and share reports, custom dashboards and fluid visualizations with your key stakeholders
§ Take full advantage of apps and solutions to extend the power of Splunk § Develop best practices around setting up and enhancing your Splunk architecture
3. Meet other Splunk Ninjas
Mingle with other Splunk users to swap stories about your data adventures, whiteboard ideas, share best practices to get your creative juices flowing. You'll get the chance to:
§ Network with over 4,000 Splunk enthusiasts and learn about their success stories across a wide range of use cases and verticals
§ Take advantage of our Search Party! networking reception and Source=Pavilion with Splunk Apps Showcase to meet some of the brightest minds in IT
§ Get custom support from the Splunk Answers desk, as well as your favorite Splunkers from engineering, support, product management, professional services and other teams
4. Make Your Money Work for You
Make the most of the investment you've already made in Splunk--get educated. And, get the most bang for your buck with over $7,500 worth of technical education* for a bargain price. You'll receive:
§ Weeks' worth of Splunk training packed into three days - absorb it like a sponge! § Hands-on advice about your specific implementation from the people who built the product § Invaluable tips, tricks and best practices from peers § Earn CPE Credits toward ISC2, ISACA and DRII Certification Programs
5. Turbocharge Your Team
Bring your team and gain new energy, new ideas and best practices to bring back to the office. Whiteboards and Ask the Expert sessions across the conference will empower your innovation! Get ready to:
§ Implement innovative ideas and approaches to solving common IT challenges and to getting actionable business insights
§ Inspire your co-workers by sharing best practices and new ideas § Supercharge your Splunk!

