Low visibility of Cyber Threats
 Invisible Attacks  VPN, AD, PtH, PtT
 Invisible Network Traffic  Google Drive, Dropbox
 Invisible Malware  Task schedule, Wmi , Powershell

 2016 Verint systems inc. All rights reserved worldwide

9

Fileless malware attacks
 As seen from the script or fileless malware, they begin to increase
dramatically. And the PowerShell can be embedded in a macro and then into a document file in various forms.
 The leverage of PowerShell or wmi which both built-in in windows
system are often used in post-exploitation activities so the fileless threats will be more and more.

 2016 Verint systems inc. All rights reserved worldwide

10

You can install the back door just in one PS line
 The following elegant PowerShell can achieve three things in one line:
 Detect the architecture (check against the size of the IntPtr object type: x86
or x64bit).
 Download binary from website.  Directly run the binary on the fly (use iex command).

 Invoke-Expression(iex), Runs commands or expressions on the local computer.

 2016 Verint systems inc. All rights reserved worldwide

11

Import Self-Signed Certificate to Bypass Sign Check
 The malicious program is Self-Signed. But hacker added it to the trusted root
chain. So the victim will always verify this as valid signature.
12

Sample_NICT.rar Overview
 TMPolicy (2) .dll is pretending to be msisip.dll
 F:\MyProject\msisip\Release\NvSmartMax.pdb  DLL entry points, and all exported APIs only do one thing
 WinExec ("tmpolicy.dll", 0)
 TMPolicy (1) .dll The original name is tmpolicy.dll
 Actually TMPolicy (1) .dll is a PE file(tmpolicy.dll).
15

TMPolicy Sample Overview
 The malware will determine whether it's in the 32-bit or 64-bit windows version and generate the
different payload with dll to bypass the security check.
 In Windows XP will drop srvlic.dll + fake file  In Windows 7 will drop msTracer.dll + fake file  Fake file is actually a real backdoor module and is usually dropped to :
 C:\Documents and Settings\All Users\Application Data\Windows CE\ directory.
 C2 Connections :  help.adobeservice.net:80;help.adobeservice.net:8080;  assist.adobeservice.net:443;assist.adobeservice.net:1863;
16

Running on x86 Windows XP
 How C:\WINDOWS\system32\srvlic.dll be executed?
17

Running on x86 Windows XP
 One of svchost.exe will load srvsvc.dll, and srvsvc.dll tries
to load srvlic.dll when LoadLicensingLibrary () is called
 C:\Windows\system32\srvlic.dll (Actually, this file does
not exist in the system)
 The fake srvlic.dll will be loaded by DLL side-loading / path
hijacking tricks.
 When srvlic.dll is loaded, it will try to read the file "fake"
and decrypt as a module file.
 The decrypted fake file will be copied to a new memory
block, so the srvlic.dll can not be observed by the process explorer.
18

Dll file has been mapped to memory blocks
19

Dll file has been mapped to memory blocks
20

Running on x64 Windows 7(1/2)
 Run TMPolicy.exe
1. Drop C:\ProgramData\temp0 file and move to
C:\Users\<USERNAME>\AppData\Local\Temp\msTracer.dll
2. Move
C:\Users\<USERNAME>\AppData\Local\Temp\msTracer.dll file to C:\Windows\system32 (theoretically can not be moved to this path, restricted by UAC)
3. When msTracer.dll is loaded, it will try to read the file "fake"
and decrypt as a module file C:\ProgramData\Windows CE\fake
4. Create a batch file to eliminate all files
21

Running on x64 Windows 7(2/2)
 SearchIndexer.exe is a Windows Service (WSearch), and it will try to load msfte.dll when
loadTracerDLL is called, and if it fails, it will to try to load msTracer.dll.
 SearchProtocolHost.exe also has the same vulnerability(Dll Side-loading).  When msTracer.dll is loaded, it will try to read the file "fake" and decrypt as a module file.
22

Bypass UAC on Windows 7(1/3)
 But TMPolicy.exe can not move msTracer.dll to system32 because it is
protected by UAC.
 So, how to place files in system protected areas without triggering UAC?
https://github.com/hfiref0x/UACME
23

Bypass UAC on Windows 7(2/3)
 Bypass the UAC restrictions  makecab.exe /V1 "C:\Users\<USERNAME>\AppData\Local\Temp\msTracer.dll"
"C:\Users\<USERNAME>\AppData\Local\Temp\msTracer.dll.msu"
 wusa.exe /quiet "C:\Users\<USERNAME>\AppData\Local\Temp\\msTracer.dll.msu"
/extract:C:\Windows\system32
24

Bypass UAC on Windows 7(3/3)
 wusa.exe : Windows Update Standalone Installer  Wusa method, tweaked to work from Windows 7 up to 10th1 10136
25

Encryption/Decryption of fake(1/4)
 Each running of TMPolicy.exe will generate different fake files, but after
decryption , the contents are all the same.
 Fake file content = 4Byte Secret Key + Encrypted Content  Secretkey is generated by rand () function.
26

Encryption/Decryption of fake(2/4)
 Secret Key: First 4 Byte  Cipher = ENCRYPT(Plain, Secret_Key)  Plain = DECRYPT(Cipher, Secret_Key)  Reduced Sequence: 128 Bytes table
reduced_sequece = [ 0x03, 0x05, 0x06, 0x07, 0x0A, 0x0C, 0x0E, 0x13, 0x14, 0x18, 0x1B, 0x1C, 0x21, 0x25, 0x26, 0x27, 0x28, 0x29, 0x2B, 0x2D, 0x2F, 0x30, 0x33, 0x35, 0x36, 0x37, 0x38, 0x3F, 0x41, 0x42, 0x45, 0x47, 0x4A, 0x4B, 0x4C, 0x4D, 0x4E, 0x50, 0x52, 0x53, 0x55, 0x56, 0x57, 0x5A, 0x5B, 0x5D, 0x5E, 0x60, 0x61, 0x65, 0x66, 0x67, 0x69, 0x6A, 0x6B, 0x6C, 0x6D, 0x6E, 0x70, 0x73, 0x77, 0x7D, 0x7E, 0x7F, 0x82, 0x83, 0x84, 0x8A, 0x8E, 0x91, 0x93, 0x94, 0x95, 0x96, 0x97, 0x98, 0x9A, 0x9B, 0x9C, 0xA0, 0xA1, 0xA3, 0xA4, 0xA6, 0xA7, 0xAA, 0xAB, 0xAC, 0xAE, 0xAF, 0xB1, 0xB3, 0xB4, 0xB5, 0xB6, 0xB7, 0xBA, 0xBC, 0xBF, 0xC0, 0xC2, 0xC9, 0xCA, 0xCB, 0xCC, 0xCE, 0xD1, 0xD2, 0xD4, 0xD6, 0xD8, 0xD9, 0xDA, 0xDB, 0xDC, 0xE0, 0xE5, 0xE6, 0xE9, 0xED, 0xEE, 0xF3, 0xF5, 0xF7, 0xFA, 0xFB, 0xFC, 0xFE, ]
27

Encryption/Decryption of fake(3/4)
1. Calculate Chosen Sequence: 4 Bytes  chosen_sequence[ i ] = reduced_sequece[ secret_key[ i ] % 128]
2. Build First Secret Map: 256 Bytes  first_secret_map = [ 0, 1, 2, ... , 255 ]
3. Choice chosen_sequence[ 0 ] ~ chosen_sequence[ 4 ]  first_secret_map rearranged four times with chosen_sequence[0-4]
 Build Second Secret Map: 256 Bytes  second_secret_map[ first_secret_map[ i ] ] = i
28

Encryption/Decryption of fake(4/4)
 Encryption(substitution ), through the second_secret_map
 encrypted_data [ i ] = second_secret_map[ original_data[ i ] ]
 Decryption(substitution ), through the reversed_second_secret_map
 reversed_second_secret_map[ second_secret_map[ i ] ] = i
decrypted_data[ i ] = reversed_second_secret_map[ encrypted_data[ i ] ]
29

Operation TooHash (H2)
 03/11/2014 G DATA SecurityLabs have discovered a spyware
campaign. Operation TooHash is a targeted cyber attack on companies and organizations. The aim of the attack is to steal sensitive information from the targeted companies. Using a "spear-phishing" approach"  2013~ 2014-01-06
 8d263d5dae035e3d97047171e1cbf841 (102103.xls)  7251073c67db6421049ee2baf4f31b62 (.doc)  2ec306ef507402037e9c1eeb81276152 (.xls)  6b83319cf336179f2105999fe586242c (Wo.doc)
 C2:
 *.cnnic-micro.com , *.adobeservice.net, *.intarnetservice.com.,etc

 2016 Verint systems inc. All rights reserved worldwide

34

Indicator of New OperationTooHash
 Hash Values  650C58E995A471FA4BE6C49A32F7899B  4DBD68D3741D46170D2585AAE4336B80
 IP Address
 Domain Names  help.adobeservice.net  help.adobeservice.net
 Network/Host Artifacts  En/Decode Algorithm, Strings  Connection Protocol, User-agent
 Tools
 TMPolicy.exe
 TTPs
 Spearphishing email  UAC bypass, wusa.exe  Deploy through Anti-Virus  Dll-Slde loading

 2016 Verint systems inc. All rights reserved worldwide

35

Machine-readable threat intelligence

able to generate IOCs

Not able to generate IOCs

Closed threat intelligence

(organization)  2016 Verint systems inc. All rights reserved worldwide

41

Automated & Orchestrated Cyber Intelligence
Comprehensive = Active + Passive Monitoring
Multiple Dimensions= Network + EndPoint forensics + Files Analysis Automated Analysis= Intelligence-Oriented Analysis+ Machine Learning
Visualization = Unified Investigation Platform
47

