Protect identities, systems and data from malicious attacks with resilient, automated processes paired with a singular identity, privileged access and password platform with built in threat detection and response.

DATA SHEET
Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric
Compromised passwords remain the top cause of breaches and attacks. Reduce the risk in shadow IT by securing the hundreds of employee passwords, secrets, and files outside your onboarded IAM program. Bravura Safe centrally and securely manages decentralized passwords, secrets, and files, including timebound passwords and encryption keys, for everyone in your organization.
The Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric empowers organizations to better navigate this difficult terrain with a resilient, flexible, single identity and access management (IAM) platform and framework. The Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric has the technological and architectural building blocks with decades of proven reliability to protect, manage and govern your entire digital identity and access infrastructure from malicious attackers.
The Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric is a singular, powerful framework and platform that brings together all of the layers of Hitachi ID Bravura, including Identity, Privilege, Pass and Group plus a threat detection and response (TDR) layer: Hitachi ID Bravura Discover.
The Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric creates a centralized view to weave patterns of functionality your organization needs so it's protected against continual threats and all aspects of your identity and access security program are covered. As you uncover new identity and access threats or your roadmap evolves, turn services on or off as needed without installing other products to improve IT security, support internal controls and regulatory compliance, and lower access administration and costs.
Move Faster Against Cyber Threats
Progressively sophisticated hacking makes it more difficult to defend your organization against fast moving attacks. Cyber-criminals now share tools, software and frameworks within global hacking communities. The new kind of hacker uses software to scrape publicly available information and create a structured overview of an organization's vulnerabilities. Automated tools let hackers move faster to exploit your organization's vulnerabilities.
Instead of manual methods, combat automated attacks with security automation to win against hackers. Automated and tested processes will result in fewer mistakes and lower risk to your organization.
The Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric automation-first approach gives you agility and flexibility to accurately configure your identity and access solution. Provide continual protection with a singular platform and an automation-first approach to secure your systems faster and more effectively than access certification and individual products.

Hitachi ID Bravura Identity
Revolutionize your digital identity program with Hitachi ID Bravura Identity. Implement the best-in-class Hitachi ID solution to enforce security, cross-platform access policies, and uphold the principles of least privilege.
Hitachi ID Bravura Privilege
Reduce IT security risk and enhance accountability with frictionless, timelimited privileged access. Hitachi ID Bravura Privilege facilitates millions of daily password randomizations and authorizes access with a highly available, geo-redundant solution.
Hitachi ID Bravura Pass
Improve login security processes and simplify credential management for passwords, tokens, smart cards, security questions and biometrics management across systems and applications with Hitachi ID Bravura Pass.
Hitachi ID Bravura Safe
An easy-to-implement enterprise password safe that centrally, consistently, and securely manages decentralized passwords, secrets, and files to protect against cyberattacks. Employees can securely send time-bound passwords for new accounts, encryption keys for files, or entire files without them being leaked or intercepted.
Hitachi ID Bravura Discover
Hitachi ID Bravura Discover delivers a powerful risk and threat assessment for both IAM and PAM solutions to get your organization on the right track--quickly. Its automated discovery analysis takes just a day to provide the most accurate data to close identity and privileged access security gaps with confidence by removing the potential for human error or intervention.

Discover Risks Below the Surface and Automate Solutions to Strengthen Governance
Security is an ongoing process that begins with discovering weaknesses and automating the repairs to potentially exploited areas. Implementing automation enables quick protection for your identity and access solution, while focusing on discovery helps you detect potential attacks before they even happen.
The Hitachi ID Bravura Discover TDR, an integral layer of the Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric, reveals your changing risks and threats (including the ones below the surface) with the most accurate, fastest, and in-depth TDR report for both identity and privileged access.
When implemented as part of your Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric, it also helps to structure your existing services, show the gaps and reveal duplicated services. This helps optimize investments and improves security on a continual basis. It provides Managed Detection & Response (MDR) by identifying all of your systemic risks upfront and providing a holistic recommendation.
Invest In an Open, Flexible and Unified Security Fabric
With cybersecurity protection challenges constantly emerging, your organization will require a flexible approach to IAM. Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric offers sturdy and mature automation and detection; governance and compliance; analytics and reporting capabilities are expertly designed for organizations with even the most complex requirements.
Leveraging the Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric as the central structure for all IAM solutions simplifies vendor selection and program deployment. It also streamlines service level agreements and lowers overall cost to create a reliable identity and access program. The Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric offers a single platform with open architecture and shared connectors across all products allowing flexibility to easily scale. Hitachi ID has the industry's largest organically grown portfolio of connectors and a robust API platform to integrate any system to complete a robust security strategy.
Use Proven Patterns for Faster Time to Market
With more than 20 years of deep domain experience and countless custom deployments for Fortune 500 companies around the world, the Hitachi ID team has honed in on how to deliver faster time to value. Hitachi ID has used these best practices to develop the Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric Patterns. These patterns are strengthened with tried and true best practice processes, policies, and metadata common to particular industries and solutions. They reduce time, cost and risk for IAM deployments from months to days.
The Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric Patterns lets organizations automate a more comprehensive set of identity lifecycle processes up front, such as onboarding, deactivation, access reviews, transfers, leaves of absence, name changes, rehire detection, and more. This allows more flexibility than starting with one or two processes and building over time. The Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric Patterns are optimized for fast service and robust internal controls to improve on the legacy processes to create a more efficient implementation.

MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS

Type Processor

 Intel Xeon or similar CPU. Multi-core CPU, Dual core.

Memory

 16GB RAM ­ 32GB or more per server

HD

 600GB HD storage in an enterprise RAID configuration

OTHER

 Gbit Ethernet NIC. Windows Server 2019 (Version 10.0.17763.1397) including updates to 09-2020. Docker version 19.03.11 or higher.

Click here to learn more about Hitachi ID Bravura Security Fabric.

Corporate Headquarters 1401 - 1st Street S.E., Suite 500 Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2G 2J3 hitachi-id.com

Contact Information 1.403.233.0740 Sales Toll Free: 1.877.386.0372 / 1.877.495.0459 sales@Hitachi-ID.com

© 2022 Hitachi ID Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. All other marks, symbols and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

