The Business-Wide Financial Benefits of Multi-Cloud Networking
Are you ready to unlock cost savings and new revenue growth opportunities with Aviatrix?

"With Aviatrix, we are saving millions. Assistant Director of Cloud Architecture
and Engineering, Manufacturer1

Executive Summary
Whether as part of an intentional strategy or unexpected consequence of shadow IT, customer requirements, or new mergers and acquisitions, multi-cloud infrastructures are on the rise. According to IDG research, 66% of enterprises already use services from multiple cloud providers.2 A figure that is set to increase as IT and business decision-makers seek to:

I'm already cloud connected, why do I need Aviatrix?
There's a big difference between "connecting to the cloud" and "cloud networking". Aviatrix cloud networking is a superset of networking and security in and across AWS, Azure, GCP, OCI, delivering intelligent routing, traffic engineering, end-to-end encryption, internet egress filtering, firewall insertion, operational visibility, infrastructure as code automation and more. Aviatrix works seamlessly with your SD-WAN, SASE and cloud connectivity services and goes well beyond simply connecting to your cloud edge.
"Without Aviatrix, it would have taken an extra year and twice the staff. Senior Infrastructure Architect, Insurance Company1

Reduce costs and drive new revenue
generation

Avoid cloud vendor lock-in

Ensure regulatory compliance and regional availability

Access best of breed technologies

Maintain data sovereignty

Establish multi-cloud operational visibility

While the potential benefits of multi-cloud networking are substantial, every new cloud platform added to your infrastructure brings with it unique processes and tools that require specific expertise to master. Enterprise IT is complex at the best of times and multi-cloud networking -- especially if unplanned -- can impact business performance, slow cloud network operations and create security vulnerabilities. On the other hand, if your organization is prepared, a well architected multi-cloud network can result in faster time-to-market and increased revenue from both new and existing customers.
The Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform enables organizations to unlock the business-wide financial benefits that multi-cloud networking can deliver, while maintaining the centralized visibility and control that IT teams require to operate as efficiently and securely as possible.

2

Every business is single cloud until the day they are not
Multi-cloud requirements have a habit of slipping in under the radar. While some organizations actively pursue services from multiple cloud providers, many become multi-cloud unexpectedly and without a proper strategy in place to capitalize on the situation. The result? Shadow IT, technical skill gaps, inconsistent security and poor operational performance.
As multi-cloud networks and the requirements they bring become more commonplace, the better prepared your organization is to manage this transformation, the faster you can reap the rewards -- that's where the Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform comes into play.

"Aviatrix gives you a common language between multi-cloud environments. Tyron Philip Senior Network Engineer, Cloud Networking Engineering, ReAssure
Watch Video

The Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform
A recent Forrester TEI study shows how the Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform enables you to manage the complexities of multicloud networking and unlock business-wide financial benefits
across 3 key areas.
The Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform pays
for itself two times over in three years, as customers receive an
average of
222% ROI

Multi-cloud Readiness Respond quickly to prospective client requests involving different cloud providers, opening the door to new business opportunities.
$2.4 million
Increased margin from new business

Accelerated Service Delivery Deliver cloud services at speed, reducing time-to-market and maximizing responsiveness to new customers and business demands.
$776,000
Increased revenue from existing clients

$1 million
From reallocated FTEs and
streamlined cloud network operations

Increased Operational Efficiency
Resolve skill gaps, improve resource management, reduce exposure to potential security risks and enable your network engineers to focus on priority tasks.

Figures based on 2021 Forrester Total Economic ImpactTM Study of the Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform.1

3

Over $4 million
Total benefits and cost
savings over three years1

Multi-cloud readiness impacts your bottom line
Even if you have every intention of remaining single cloud, the Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform delivers huge value and ensures that you are prepared should things change--and they will.
Let's say you're met with a request from a prospective client who is only willing to work within a specific cloud platform, or you need to create a new application environment for a potential new business opportunity. With Aviatrix, your capacity to respond to these business-driven requests is greatly improved.
Previously, the time needed to establish a multi-cloud network infrastructure, security compliance and operational control would have been months, often resulting in the prospect running out of time and the new business opportunity being lost. The Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform enables such tasks to be completed in less than a week

"I can point Aviatrix at GCP and build the same environment that I have in AWS and I don't have to understand the specifics of each individual cloud infrastructure. The

repeatable, dynamic architecture doesn't exist outside of the Aviatrix framework.

Spence Nelson
Senior Cloud Network Engineer, Workfront

Watch Video

Lengthy setup tasks, complex review cycles and security audits are replaced by cloud network designs that can be replicated quickly and even help prevent human errors. This responsiveness greatly increases your chances of winning new business, leading to more revenue, operating margin and profit. In fact, the Forrester TEI study shows that Aviatrix customers benefit from an average of $2.4 million increased margin and profit from net new business over a three-year period.1

"The chances of mistakes are almost completely negated, I have an audit trail built in, I can test right away and I'm not wasting time trying to figure out what's going on.

Michael Briseño
Associate Director, Raytheon Technologies

Watch Video

4

Accelerated service delivery brings new profits from existing clients
An enterprise's capacity to react to customer and business needs is critical to remaining competitive and successful in the cloud era. A well-managed multi-cloud infrastructure built around the Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform can deliver that agility, reducing time-to-market from 6-8 months to just 2-4 weeks.1
Through independent customer interviews the Forrester study found that accelerated service delivery helps Aviatrix customers provide a higher level of service to between 20-40 existing clients each year, resulting in $776,000 increased revenue.1 The automation that powers this increased speed of delivery also helps free up network engineers to focus on other priority tasks. This in turn minimizes the need to employ new staff, reducing employee turnover and associated hiring and training costs.

From 6-8 months to
2-4 weeks
delivery time to market1

20-40
clients impacted by
Aviatrix efficiency
each year1

$776,000
increased revenue from
existing clients1

"Our speed to market, our speed to implementation, and completion of our

environments was a lot faster using Aviatrix than it would have been using

native constructs.

Jeff Duke

Senior Network Engineer, Republic Airways

Watch Video

Infrastructure cost savings
The Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform also helps you accelerate
cloud deployments and retire legacy on premise solutions with ease, as well as avoid the renewal purchase of legacy virtual routers and other networking software
deployed for previous cloud infrastructure designs. This results
in cloud network infrastructure cost savings of more than $200,000 over three years.1
$200,000
saved over 3 years1
5

+50-70%
network engineer efficiency1
Reduced operational overhead delivers a multitude of cost savings
While leveraging multiple cloud providers can bring many benefits, a poorly architected multi-cloud network can have a negative impact on business performance and efficiency. The Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform delivers intelligent central control, increased operational visibility, automation, and reduces staff skill gaps--all contributing to a significant increase in operational efficiency.
"What Aviatrix provides for us is the ability to reduce the administrative overhead, we have a faster turnaround of onboarding different architectures, regions or cloud environments. Spence Nelson Senior Cloud Network Engineer, Workfront Watch Video

Increased efficiency allows re-allocation of skilled networking resources
With Aviatrix, networking requirements that would have previously taken four to ten engineers to complete now only require two or three.1 That applies to both current and future networking tasks. This enables your organization to not only avoid the cost of hiring new staff, but also means your existing engineers can focus on more high-value tasks and invest more time in developing new skills and expertise to better serve your organization.

"Aviatrix is making it easier to spend time

on things that are more important than

the arduous complexities of each cloud

provider.

Jeff Duke

Senior Network Engineer, Republic Airways

Watch Video

Reduced risk exposure
Repeatable infrastructure as code automation means that network security is evaluated and tested and included in your CI/CD pipeline. As a result, rework due to human error, data leaks, and security breaches can be avoided.

"The time to identify a problem and the

time to resolve a problem has significantly

decreased.

Spence Nelson

Senior Cloud Network Engineer, Workfront

Watch Video

6

The simplicity and agility of
cloud with enterprise-level
operations and security
Simplify Enterprise Cloud Networking
The Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform delivers the advanced networking, security, and operational visibility services required by enterprises, while maintaining the simplicity and automation of the cloud.
Advanced Multi-Cloud Network Transit
Aviatrix software enables enterprise IT to easily deploy a high-availability, multi-cloud network data plane with end-to-end and highperformance encryption, multi-cloud security domains, and operational data IT teams need. Aviatrix Transit provides the intelligence to ensure network correctness, deliver self-healing capabilities, and deliver traffic engineering controls--functions that network architects lack with basic transit constructs delivered by the CSPs.
Enterprise-Class Operational Visibility
The Aviatrix platform brings day-two operational visibility not available from any cloud provider. This helps pinpoint traffic anomalies and suspicious behavior, resolve connectivity problems faster, and share network health metrics and dynamic network topology maps with staff and management.
Multi-Cloud Network Training
Aviatrix offers hands-on Aviatrix Certified Engineer (ACE) training and certifications to quickly bring your whole team up to speed on native AWS, Azure, and GCP networking, multi-cloud reference architectures, and the Aviatrix cloud network platform.

The Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform
Automation and Operational Control

1 Centralized Controller
The Aviatrix Controller is the brain of the Cloud Network Platform. The platform leverages the centralized intelligence and knowledge of the controller to dynamically program both native cloud network constructs and Aviatrix's own advanced services. Our single Terraform provider enables network and security infrastructure as code automation across your multi-cloud environment.

2 Gateways

1
Aviatrix Controller (Software)

Aviatrix Gateways (Software)

2
AVIATRIX TRANSIT

Cloud Networking Abstraction

4
AVIATRIX COPILOT
ADVANCED NETWORKING & SECURITY

Aviatrix gateways deliver advanced cloud networking and security services. Gateways are primarily deployed to deliver transit network and security services such as intelligent dynamic routing, active-active network high-availability, end-to-end and high-performance encryption and collect operational visibility data, but also for secure network ingress and egress filtering and external service insertion.

3 Native Cloud Constructs

API

3

API

The Aviatrix Controller leverages and controls native cloud constructs through public APIs, allowing the platform to be part of the cloud network, while adding critical network, security and operational visibility enterprises require.

BASIC CLOUD NETWORKING &
SECURITY

SERVICE INSERTION &
CHAINING

4 Aviatrix CoPilot
Enterprise network operations teams must have deep visibility into network activity. CoPilot leverages the intelligence of the Aviatrix Controller and network flow analytics from Aviatrix Gateways to deliver multi-cloud visibility that is simply not available from any cloud provider.
7

Aviatrix customers receive
222% ROI on average1
A well-designed multi-cloud network architecture delivers business-wide cost savings and new revenue generation opportunities. Whether you want to ensure your organization is prepared for a future multi-cloud strategy or unlock the financial benefits of an existing multi-cloud infrastructure, Aviatrix can help. The Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform enables you to leverage the simplicity and agility you expect from the cloud, while enabling you to meet the operational and security requirements needed to extract the most value out of every
cloud provider you use.

"Aviatrix is like a swiss army knife of cloud networking. We started off with one use case and it just went from there. Tyron Philip Senior Network Engineer, Cloud Networking Engineering, ReAssure
Watch Video
Aviatrix is simple to deploy. Most of our customers launch and begin using our services in a single afternoon with experts on-hand to help.

Schedule a Demo

Access Forrester Study

8

About Aviatrix
Aviatrix is a cloud network platform that brings multi-cloud networking, security, and operational visibility capabilities that go beyond what any cloud service provider offers. Aviatrix has over 500 enterprise customers who leverage its proven multi-cloud network reference architecture to design, deploy and operate a repeatable network and security architecture that is consistent across public clouds.
Aviatrix software leverages AWS, Azure, GCP and Oracle Cloud APIs to interact with and directly program native cloud networking constructs, abstracting the unique complexities of each cloud to form one network data plane, complete with the advanced networking, security and operational features enterprises require.
Meet the CEO
Ten years ago, Steve Mullaney led Nicira and VMware to transform data center networking with SDN and network virtualization. Three years ago, Steve saw that the approaching wave of enterprise digital transformation -- the "all in" shift to public cloud services -- and understood that networking as we knew it needed to transform as well. Two years ago, Steve took the helm at Aviatrix.
Today, some of the largest enterprises in the world look to Steve as the industry's thought leader and have partnered with him and the Aviatrix team to deliver the foundation of their next generation multicloud network infrastructure.

Sources
1. The Total Economic ImpactTM of the Aviatrix Cloud Network Platform. Forrester Consulting, 2021
2. Cloud Computing Study 2020. IDG, 2020

