The SafeBreach Platform
Holistic Visibility That Ties Into Your Business Risk
Modern security teams face numerous challenges, including a rapidly evolving threat landscape and ongoing enterprise transformation. To be effective, teams need the ability to easily integrate improvements into their existing technology ecosystems that minimize the business risk posed by evolving threats. Security controls that form a critical part of the ecosystem can quickly become difficult to manage, and their misconfigurations can hinder fast and efficient threat detection and response. These configuration drifts can often lead to a lack of visibility into security control performance, resulting in gaps and vulnerabilities that can be exploited by advanced threat actors.

Improving Cyber Readiness with the SafeBreach Breach and Attack Simulation Platform
The SafeBreach breach and attack simulation (BAS) platform enables your team to assess the efficacy of its security ecosystem, by safely executing breach scenarios across the entire cyber kill chain to determine where security is working as expected and where attacks will break through current defense configurations. This helps proactively identify security risks and make informed decisions to best protect the business. SafeBreach empowers teams to:  Continuously validate and optimize the efficacy of cloud
and on-prem security controls  Test security posture against emerging and known threats  Discover and mitigate critical gaps before adversaries  Automate and prioritize remediation to efficiently mitigate risk  Measure and report to facilitate business risk assessment,
threat prioritization, and security program spend  Improve overall SOC efficacy by testing current detection
capabilities and incident response playbooks
The SafeBreach Advantage
Largest attack playbook in the industry (24,000 attacks and growing)
Only vendor offering 24-hr SLA for US-CERT and emerging threats
Widest MITRE ATT&CKTM coverage
Scalable, enterprise-ready platform with simple deployment
Mature technology partner ecosystem

Key Use Cases Supported
Security Control Validation Optimize security investments to face tomorrow's threats
Threat Assessment Take threat intelligence to the next level
Cloud Security Assessment Test cloud-native environments against advanced threats
Risk-Based Vulnerability Management Identify and prioritize exploitable vulnerabilities
Mergers and Acquisitions Safeguard investments and minimize liabilities

FOR MORE INFORMATION OR TO REQUEST A DEMO, VISIT: SAFEBREACH.COM

The SafeBreach Platform
HOLISTIC VISIBILITY THAT TIES INTO YOUR BUSINESS RISK
Key Pillars of the SafeBreach BAS Platform
The Safebreach Platform Provides Visibility Across Siloed Security Solutions to Reveal Your Actual Risk and Promote Cross-Functional Mitigation Efficiency -- with Safebreach:
Attack with Purpose
Leveraging our patented Hacker's PlaybookTM -- a collection of more than 24,000 attack methods -- the platform enables you to replicate a hacker's mindset to continuously test the efficacy of existing security controls against advanced attacks. Newly discovered threats are added to the platform by our renowned research team within 24 hours, allowing you to proactively test for vulnerabilities against the most up-to-date threats in the market. KEY FEATURES
Search, filter, and select attacks to run from the industry's largest playbook. Execute preconfigured attack scenarios developed by SafeBreach experts to replicate common threats. Integrate with external threat intelligence providers. Create customized attacks and save them to your own playbook for future use.
Analyze with Real-Time Data
Access powerful insight into the status of your organization's security posture by aggregating and visualizing security-control performance data that's not available anywhere else. With SafeBreach, you'll understand what your attack surface looks like, which network segments are most vulnerable, and what threat groups present the highest risk to your business -- all in one place. You can also contextualize that data to understand organizational exposure, the impact of threats across the entire kill-chain, and mitigation options. KEY FEATURES
Visualize real-time performance data about the efficacy of deployed security controls. Leverage the MITRE ATT&CKTM framework to understand overall organizational risk exposure. Visualize attack paths and explore alternative mitigation approaches.
FOR MORE INFORMATION OR TO REQUEST A DEMO, VISIT: SAFEBREACH.COM

The SafeBreach Platform
HOLISTIC VISIBILITY THAT TIES INTO YOUR BUSINESS RISK
Remediate with Intention
The SafeBreach platform provides actionable insights about the root cause of successful breach simulations, so you can quickly identify and visualize gaps, easily collaborate to speed remediation, and efficiently reduce the attack surface. SafeBreach also integrates with a wide variety of technology partners, providing valuable context you need to prioritize vulnerabilities and allocate resources to remediate security gaps. KEY FEATURES Utilize actionable insights to identify security gaps. Prioritize vulnerabilities based on their level of risk. Leverage technology integrations to seamlessly share data with other security tools and systems.
Report with Confidence
Enhance stakeholder visibility with customizable dashboards that provide visualizations to help key stakeholders quickly understand existing gaps, evaluate risks, and recognize security drift. SafeBreach reports provide an overview of the overall organizational posture broken down by different categories, including the MITRE ATT&CKTM framework, known attacks, and threat groups, so you can understand the efficacy of existing systems at a glance, inform resourcing decisions, and enhance strategic alignment. KEY FEATURES Enhance stakeholder visibility with customizable dashboards. Identify risk exposure, track improvements, and communicate progress over time with personalized reports. Understand and communicate remediation priorities. Leverage technology integrations to seamlessly share data with other security tools and systems.
FOR MORE INFORMATION OR TO REQUEST A DEMO, VISIT: SAFEBREACH.COM

