Identity-First Cloud Infrastructure Security
Holistic, multicloud protection across identities, data, network and compute resources
Reduce Your Cloud Attack Surface
One of the most underestimated risks to cloud infrastructure -- and the hardest to find and fix -- is misconfigured identities. As per a Gartner® report, "by 2023, 75% of security failures will result from inadequate management of identities, access, and privileges, up from 50% in 2020".* To successfully manage your cloud security posture, you need to go deep on identities.
Nearly

Of large companies cite access as a primary root cause of their
cloud data breaches

Of organizations spend more than 25 hours weekly on cloud infrastructure IAM

Of enterprises cite lack of visibility and inadequate IAM as major cloud security threats

Security and Compliance across AWS, Azure and GCP
Ermetic is an identity-first solution for securing cloud infrastructure at scale. It combines a full lifecycle approach for entitlements management (CIEM) and security posture management (CSPM) to detect, reduce and prevent risks to cloud assets, through:
A full SaaS platform that offers fast value and is easy to operationalize and use Actionable and granular visibility into all multicloud assets Risk findings of exceptional depth, prioritized by severity Built in remediation steps based on actual-use least privilege Automated security posture management and compliance Access governance with full control over sensitive resources
Ermetic is a force multiplier for Security, reducing manual tasks and improving communication with DevSecOps and management.

*Gartner, "Managing Privileged Access in Cloud Infrastructure", December 7, 2021.
GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved.

CIEM and CSPM in One
Cloud Infrastructure Entitlements Management and Cloud Security Posture Management in one unified platform
SEE. Actionable visibility and multi-cloud inventory management
Start from the dashboard and drill down/query into permissions, configurations, network and activities -- for the full range of cloud resources.

COLLABORATE. Automated and tailored remediation Mitigate risk efficiently using auto-generated -- and customizable -- policies based on actual activity. Integrate them easily across ticketing, CI/CD pipelines, and IaC and other workflows.
COMPLY. Compliance and access governance Ensure compliance with industry standards including CIS, GDPR, HIPAA, ISO, NIST, PCI and SOC2, and define your own custom policies. Audit and investigate activity with contextual visibility into enriched access logs.

ACT. Visual risk assessment across identities, network, compute and data Gain full stack insight into excessive and risky permissions, network exposure, misconfigured resources, sensitive data and vulnerable workloads.
INVESTIGATE. Anomaly and threat detection Apply advanced behavioral analytics against baselines to discover identity-based anomalies and threats, including unusual reconnaissance, configuration changes and suspicious data access.

*IDC State of Cloud Security 2021 Survey, commissioned by Ermetic
To learn more or schedule a demo, contact: info@ermetic.com
Copyright 2019-21. All rights reserved. Ermetic is a registered trademark of Ermetic Ltd.

