Train with Purpose.

Why Train with CyberVista
CyberVista aims to provide cybersecurity leaders and executives with objective visibility into the state of their greater teams. The resulting data enables leaders to create, refine, and deploy effective people skills strategies. Using a diagnostics-first approach, we deliver metrics-driven alternatives to incumbent training programs that have failed to improve the state of cybersecurity talent for decades. We provide organizations with relevant, efficient, and effective training solutions that close persistent skills gaps.
Security leaders are painfully aware that sourcing cybersecurity talent is nearly impossible. Are you and your organization struggling to hire, upskill, and retain cybersecurity and IT talent?
In 30 years in the Army this was the best training I've ever attended. Every Signal and Cyber Soldier in the Army
needs to take this course...
Senior Instructor US Army Signal School

Our Solutions
All of our solutions begin with a diagnostic assessment. The assessment acts to initiate our three-step methodology: we partner with you to outline your unique goals, optimize training for your team, and provide reportable metrics on the outcomes.
Diagnostic Assessments
Identify team "skills gaps" and establish a clear skills baseline with our diagnostic assessments. We use these inputs plus predefined organizational goals to deploy relevant training and achieve better learning outcomes.
Role-Based
Our portfolio can adapt to both direct cybersecurity and cyber-enabled teams. Specialties include: Security Operations, Incident Response, Executive Leadership & Board members, Sales Engineers, and more.
Certification Preparation
We offer comprehensive courses for top cybersecurity certifications, as well as practice exams and practical labs for over 100 exam titles in IT and cybersecurity. We are official training providers to the top certification bodies including (ISC), CompTIA, and ISACA.
Professional Services
Whether you're looking to match job skills to a single role or completely restructure job profiles and career pathways, we help you develop a tailored workforce development plan and align your strategy to the NICE Framework.
Our detailed taxonomy is aligned to the National Cybersecurity Workforce Framework (NCWF), serving as a roadmap to identify the skill and knowledge gaps between roles and levels within an enterprise.

Our Value
Where other training providers leave leaders with no measurable way to answer the question, "Did this make us better at what we do?" Cybervista's solutions provide training with purpose. Here's how we're different:

DATA-DRIVEN
Drive employee accountability and measure improvements with robust performance analytics and detailed insights reports.
EFFICIENT
Learners receive resources that foster engagement and long-term retention without cramming or bootcamp-style training.

RELEVANT
We focus on building the right knowledge and skills for each role while providing engaging learning.
COST-EFFECTIVE
At approximately one-third the cost of the leading bootcamp provider, you can train your entire team and not just a select few.

About CyberVista
CyberVista is a training company established in 2016, based on a profound need to change the way organizations identify and develop cybersecurity talent, it is our mission to transform your workforce today to meet tomorrow's cybersecurity challenges. Our data-driven approach gives organizations the visibility to make better training decisions, build the right skills, and drive defense.
CyberVista, a Graham Holdings Company 1300 17th Street North, 17th Floor Arlington, VA 22209

CyberVista training is available Live Online and OnDemand featuring expert instructors in engaging, interactive sessions.
Let's talk.
Whether training a small team or hundreds within your workforce, we look forward to the potential of working with you and your organization on your next initiative. For further information please email sales@cybervista.net or call 844-558-4782.

NICE Workforce Diagnostic
You can't improve what you don't measure.
Your organization regularly conducts network scans to find and patch vulnerabilities, so why not do the same with your people? Most cybersecurity leaders don't have a mechanism to accurately measure the current state of their cybersecurity teams. Without objective visibility, training dollars are misallocated.
CyberVista created the NICE Workforce Diagnostic to provide cybersecurity leaders with a foundation for making smarter cybersecurity training and talent decisions.
What is the NICE Workforce Diagnostic?
The NICE Workforce Diagnostic provides cybersecurity leaders with a baseline into competency areas of strength and weakness covering all seven categories of the Workforce Framework for Cybersecurity (NICE Framework). Developed by NIST, the NICE Framework establishes a common lexicon of cybersecurity-related competencies that can be applied to any organization and cybersecurity job role. As the name suggests, the NICE Workforce Diagnostic is a diagnostic solution designed to help organizations align their people initiatives to the NICE framework.
The diagnostic is delivered in two parts. First, participating practitioners complete an initial assessment that can be completed in 45 minutes or less. Unlike knowledge assessments or employee screening tools, the diagnostic includes questions that go beyond simple multiple choice to truly capture comprehension at the practitioner level.

Upon your team's completion of the diagnostic assessment, designated leaders will gain access to a written Insights Report with actionable training recommendations and/or an interactive Insights Dashboard. The dashboard includes filters for demographics, job roles, experience, and specific areas of the NICE Cybersecurity Workforce Framework to uncover further insights and to support talent applications and initiatives.
What's included?
Diagnostic Assessment (Practitioner Participation)  Web-based 45-minute diagnostic
exam  Personal Performance Tracker to
review results and scoring  Detailed explanations with links to
the NICE Framework Insights Reporting (Leadership Deliverables)  Insights Dashboard with
performance and demographics data  Written Insights Report with workforce recommendations and analysis

NICE Workforce Diagnostic question examples.

cybervista.net

Why pursue a diagnostics-first approach?

Insights Dashboard

A diagnostics-first approach empowers cybersecurity leaders to make informed decisions on the state of their cyber teams prior to spending the thousands (or perhaps millions) of dollars they commit annually to training. Your organization saves precious time and money by only deploying training in areas that have a positive impact on closing persistent skills gaps.
Signal to your practitioners that investments in training are purposeful and relevant to their roles. When has a onesize-fits-all bootcamp or subscription helped to answer the question "did this make us better at what we do?" Investing and training in the areas that are needed most not only improve employee job performance, but have a positive ripple-effect that improve employee satisfaction, retention, and career path opportunities.

Securely Provision
Protect and Defend

Analyze 100 75
25

Unit Area Analyze
Collect and Operate Investigate
Operate and Maintain Oversee and Govern Protect and Defend Securely Provision
Collect and Operate
Operate and Maintain

Oversee and Govern

Investigate

23%

37% 31%
40% 34%
51%
42%

When should my organization use the NICE Workforce Diagnostic?

The diagnostic is an applicable solution for any organization looking to improve decision making regarding cybersecurity workforce development. Some specific applications include:

Prioritizing training deployment and spend. Organizations can be more deliberate in how funds are allocated when they know exactly where team members need training. Using a quantified approach, the NICE Workforce Diagnostic informs you of where your training dollars are best suited for maximum return on investment.
Verifying competencies for specific roles. The NICE Workforce Diagnostic can baseline, verify, and compare individual or aggregate team scores to expected competency outcomes for different cybersecurity roles.
Cross-skilling current talent based on proficiencies. The diagnostic can serve as a guiding point to facilitate career growth, lateral movements, or expansion of responsibilities. Rather than hiring new employees for the skills listed on their resume, the insights uncovered after a diagnostic assessment allow you to utilize your current talent to their maximum potential.

Onboarding talent into specific roles. Leveraging the NICE Workforce Diagnostic during onboarding can identify where individuals excel, then allocate new cohorts to teams that can best take advantage of their knowledge and skills. Furthermore, organizations can hire entry-level talent and administer relevant training based on the outcomes of the diagnostic, resulting in savings on both ends--wages and training spend.
Modernizing cybersecurity job roles and expectations. Many organizations are utilizing the NICE Framework to develop their cybersecurity workforce strategy. This diagnostic helps to inform those strategic decisions by measuring talent according to the NICE Framework, giving you visibility on which teams and skill-areas to prioritize.

Gain data-driven insights.
Let's talk.
We look forward to helping you train with purpose. For further information on developing a diagnostics-first approach to your cybersecurity workforce, please email sales@cybervista.net or call 844-558-4782.

Professional Services

Data-driven workforce development.
CyberVista's Professional Services takes a diagnostics-first approach to cybersecurity workforce development that offers measurable and actionable insights to address your goals.
Our solutions are mapped to the Workforce Framework for Cybersecurity (NICE Framework) to ensure consistency and accuracy in objectives required for each job role, while also offering customizable options to align with your organization's workforce development strategy.
Skills Assessments
The NICE Workforce Diagnostic is an assessment that takes a snapshot of your team's current competencies measured against the seven categories of the NICE Framework. Provided with an interactive dashboard and/or final insights report, you can uncover trends in your workforce, plus receive relevant training recommendations.

NICE Table
Name
Participant 1 Participant 2 Participant 3 Participant 4 Participant 5 Participant 6 Participant 7 Participant 8 Participant 9 Participant 10 Participant 11 Participant 12

Analyze

Collect & Operate

Investigate

Operate & Maintain

Oversee & Govern

Protect & Defend

Securely Provision

14%

50%

0%

33%

50%

0%

0%

43%

100%

50%

11%

75%

0%

50%

39%

3%

38%

36%

45%

24%

50%

57%

50%

50%

56%

50%

13%

0%

43%

50%

0%

44%

25%

25%

50%

14%

100%

50%

11%

75%

38%

0%

14%

50%

50%

11%

25%

0%

0%

43%

0%

50%

22%

25%

25%

0%

57%

100%

50%

67%

50%

25%

50%

71%

50%

50%

56%

75%

25%

50%

29%

50%

50%

22%

100%

25%

50%

43%

50%

50%

78%

75%

13%

100%

NICE Alignment

All-Source Analysis

Cybersecurity Cyber Defense

Management

Analysis

Exploitation Analysis

Network Services

Executive Cyber
Leadership

Cyber Defense Infrastructure
Support

Targets

Collection Operations

Systems

Legal Advice &

Administration

Advocacy

Incident Response

Risk Management

Threat Analysis

Cyber Operational
Planning

Analyze

Collect & Operate

Cyber Investigation

Systems Analysis

Investigate

Operate & Maintain

Strategic Planning &
Policy
Oversee & Govern

Vulnerability Assessment & Management

Software Development

Protect & Defend

Securely Provision

NICE Alignment by Individual

NICE Alignment in Aggregate

Workforce Alignments
Our Workforce Alignment solution helps standardize cyber job roles and KSATs, match talent to the right roles, and map training for current or refined roles within your organization.
By evaluating job descriptions and requirements, conducting client surveys, and hosting internal interviews, we create new job profiles defining required skills, knowledge, and competencies. Using the NICE Workforce Diagnostic, we measure employee performance against the job profiles to recommend relevant training or regroup talent by skill sets.

Workforce Mapping
Based on the Workforce Alignment solution, Workforce Mapping provides the training building blocks to simplify the job transition both vertically and horizontally through your organization.
Entry Level

CYBERSECURITY SPECIALIST/ TECHNICIAN

CYBER CRIME ANALYST

Mid Level

INCIDENT ANALYST/ RESPONDER

IT AUDITOR

CS SPECIALIST/ TECHNICIAN

CYBER CRIME ANALYST

Advanced

INCIDENT ANALYST/ RESPONDER

IT AUDITOR

CS ANALYST

CS ANALYST (MANAGEMENT)

CS CONSULTANT (MANAGEMENT)

CS ANALYST (SPECIALIST)

CS CONSULTANT (SPECIALIST)

PENETRATION/ VULNERABILITY TESTER (MAN.)

CS ARCHITECT

email: sales@cybervista.net | cybervista.net

