SOLUTION BRIEF

OPEN SYSTEMS MDR+ THE CYBERSECURITY MISSION CONTROL FOR MICROSOFT
Threats are growing in their volume, variety, and sophistication ­ spurred by the increasingly lucrative nature of cybercrime. Simultaneously, the attack surface has become more distributed, heterogenous, and dynamic.
CISOs and their teams are either evaluating, or have already purchased, the Microsoft security ecosystem to get multicloud, multidevice control over their environment. But often these teams lack the resources and in-house knowledge to fully operationalize the Microsoft security stack and get the most out of their investment.
MDR+ unlocks the power of the Microsoft Security ecosystem better than any other service
Built for Microsoft environments, Open Systems MDR+ is the only MDR that delivers Mission Control for cybersecurity ­ a fully managed global security operation. MDR+ delivers tailored 24x7 protection, improves security maturity continually, and gives InfoSec teams their time back for strategic initiatives. And empowers security leaders to prove security posture efficacy, all while maximizing existing Microsoft security investments.

Your Outcomes With MDR+

MAXIMIZE YOUR MICROSOFT INVESTMENTS

GET TAILORED, HIGHLY EFFECTIVE 24X7 PROTECTION

EMPOWER INFOSEC WITH MORE TIME AND STRATEGIC WORK

IMPROVE YOUR SECURITY MATURITY CONTINUALLY

PROVE THE EFFICACY OF YOUR SECURITY POSTURE

Maximize your security ROI and lower complexity by consolidating on the Microsoft security tools you already own.

Enjoy more effective 24x7 protection that's tailored to your critical assets and integrated into your existing processes.

Elevate InfoSec by eliminating daily firefighting, enabling them to focus on strategic projects like architecting security policies and training end users.

Improve resilience and performance across the security lifecycle and continuously increase security maturity. 

Demonstrate the tangible efficacy of security while closing gaps; respond to actionable metrics from across the security lifecycle.

Unrivaled expertise in maximizing the value of your Microsoft investments

Member of
Microsoft Intelligent Security Association

Microsoft Security Customer Impact FINALIST
Microsoft Security 20/20

Top MDR Team FINALIST
Microsoft Security 20/20

As a 5-time Gold Partner and one of the earliest members of the Microsoft Intelligent Security Association (MISA), we operate Microsoft E5 security better than anyone.

Managed Detection and Response (MDR+), Solution Brief by Open Systems ©2022, proprietary

open-systems.com 1 / 2

YOUR MISSION: MITIGATE THREATS. REDUCE RISK.
MDR+ layers Mission Control on top of your Microsoft control plane to deliver on your mission.

MISSION CONTROL Owns the end-to-end success of your mission

ALIGNS WITH YOUR MISSION
Our 24x7 global security operation that optimally combines people, process, and technology.
UNDERSTANDS YOUR ENVIRONMENT
Mission Control marries a rich understanding of your attack surface and organizational realities with deep threat expertise to deliver more effective protection.

Your Open Systems Team SOC and Data Scientists

Your In-house Teams Security, IT, Executives

Assess Respond

Prevent Detect

FOSTERS COLLABORATION
Mission Control fosters collaboration between your Security, IT, and Executive teams
MEASURES SECURITY EFFICACY
Mission Control measures your security posture to drive continual improvement while arming you with the metrics to prove security efficacy.

OPTIMIZES E5 SECURITY
Any service can ingest Microsoft logs ­ only MDR+ uses purpose-built ML to connect the dots across E5 controls and your other security tools to pick out attacks from the noise.

Sentinel

Endpoint

Identity

Network

Cloud

Apps

Email

Workload

Third Party

Defender for Endpoint, Identity, Office 365 Defender for Cloud | AD Identity Protection

MAXIMIZES SENTINEL
No log forwarding to external SIEMs ­ instead MDR+ runs analytics directly within Sentinel to increase speed and reduce complexity.

YOUR ENVIRONMENT With Microsoft E5 Security as your universal control plane

To learn more about MDR+
VISIT OUR WEBSITE

Ready to get started?
CONTACT US
Open Systems customers, please contact your Account Manager for more details.

Open Systems delivers cybersecurity beyond expectations. Our award-winning Managed Detection and Response (MDR) and Secure Access Service Edge (SASE) services connect and protect customers today, while increasing their security maturity for tomorrow. Discover more at open-systems.com
Copyright 2022 Open Systems. All rights reserved. Approved for public use.

AT A GLANCE

HYBRID SECURE ACCESS SERVICE EDGE (SASE)

With Open Systems' SASE ­ the convergence of network and security services ­ you are futureready for an ever-changing, secure multicloud network.

Modernize or be disrupted
Leading businesses are moving to the cloud to create new business models, ensure business continuity and optimize IT resources. In addition, users are working from anywhere with increasing performance and security demands. Traditional WANs with bolt-on security do not support the increased network complexity and cyber-risk exposure.
Built uniquely to support you on your digital journey
Enabled by our cloud-delivered SASE platform that combines SD-WAN and security functions with extended threat detection and response (XDR) and analytics, Open Systems provides the agility, speed and flexibility needed in today's dynamic environment while freeing up IT resources to focus on areas of maximum business impact. Confidently accelerate digital transformation with 24x7 monitoring and operations by expert L3-only engineers in a native DevOps model, who ensure the skills, expertise and availability you need.

Open Systems Hybrid SASE
Network Hybrid cloud support
Security Built-in dynamic secure access

Platform Cloud-based architecture
Co-Managed Operations With direct level-3 support
Analytics Actionable insights

HYBRID SECURE EDGE

PLATFORM AND SERVICE

Our Secure SD-WAN and Extended Detection and Response (XDR) services unify security and comprehensive networking capabilities on one secure edge, deployed on-prem or in the cloud, enabling organizations to connect their clouds, branches, applications and users anywhere in the world, in a secure and flexible way.

Our cloud-enabled platform ensures agility to meet the demand of today's businesses while reducing operational complexity and cost.
Supported by our unique DevOps model, flexible co-management options and a single pane of glass, you can benefit from exceptional customer experience.

ANALYTICS
Our Customer Portal provides you with all the real-time information you need.
Get exponential benefits by closing your enterprise visibility gaps with AI-driven analytics that not only provide meaningful insights, but also make network and security data actionable for predictions, automation and optimization.

Open Systems ­ Crazy Good Cybersecurity by Open Systems ©2021, proprietary

open-systems.com 1 / 2

Network Service Security

What exactly is SASE?
In its recently published report, Gartner® defined SASE as "an emerging offering combining comprehensive WAN capabilities with comprehensive network security functions (such as SWG, CASB, FWaaS and ZTNA) to support the dynamic secure access needs of digital enterprises."
Gartner, 2022 Planning Guide for Security and Risk Management, Richard Bartley et. al, 11 October 2021 GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved.

Open Systems SASE Portfolio
The Open Systems SASE portfolio is a well-balanced mix of network and security functions, completely unified on one platform and delivered as a world-class service. Find the highlights of our portfolio below.

Network

Security

App Intelligence

Operations
Response

Network

Detection

Analytics

Connectivity

Prevention

Platform

PLATFORM

OPERATIONS

· Customer Portal ­ single pane of glass
· Monitoring and orchestration
· Hardware and software life cycle
· End-to-end integration and quality assurance

· DevOps practices · 24x7 expert L3 support · Technical consulting · Patching and
upgrading

NETWORK
· Bandwidth Control · Path Selection · Application Optimization · Encryption and Routing · Network Functions · Mobile Entry Point
(Remote Access/VPN) · SD-WAN Connect · Line Operations Service · Multicloud Connect

SECURITY
· Managed Detection and Response (MDR)
· Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR)
· Network Detection and Response (IDS/IPS)
· CASB · Cloud Sandbox · Firewall (NGFW) · Secure Web Gateway · Secure Email Gateway

ANALYTICS
· Real-time insights in the Customer Portal
· Actionable SD-WAN analytics
· Predictive security insights

Open Systems is a groundbreaking cybersecurity company delivering an experience way beyond expectations. Our obsessive care for our clients' businesses has led us to reinvent how cybersecurity is delivered to fit today's mobile, cloud-based world. Our team, based in North America, Europe, and Asia, consistently provides crazy good cybersecurity to leading organizations all over the world.
Learn more at open-systems.com | Copyright 2021 Open Systems. All rights reserved. Approved for public use.

