Accelerate Innovation with Automated Security
Full-Spectrum Software Supply Chain Automation

It's no secret... developers use open source software.
Still, there are questions around how it should be managed--and for good reason. Here's why:
 Open source components are not created equal. Some are vulnerable from the start, while others go bad over time.
 Usage has become more complex. With tens of billions of downloads, it's increasingly difficult to manage libraries and direct dependencies.
 Transitive dependencies: if you are using dependency management tools like Maven (Java), Bower (JavaScript), Bundler (Ruby), etc., then you are automatically pulling in third party dependencies--a liability that you can't afford.
How do you manage open source risk at scale? Through automated dependency management and open source governance policies.

90%

of the components in most modern applications are open source.

2.2 trillion
open source download requests of Java, npm, PyPI, and RubyGems in 2021.
373,000+
average enterprise downloads of OSS components per year

DevSecOps: Why is open source policy critical?
As the number of next-gen attacks continue to rise, DevOps organizations are making investments to better protect themselves. These organizations are taking steps to integrate and automate security across the development life cycle to build quality into their software.
According to the 2021 State of Software Supply Chain:

Only 25%
of utilized components
are updated actively

YoY cyber-attacks aimed at open source suppliers increased by
650%

Intelligent automation could save companies
$192,000
per year

29%
of popular projects contain known vulnerabilities

1
ACCELERATE INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

Accelerate software supply chain security early, everywhere, at scale with the Nexus Platform.

Early
Nexus delivers intelligence within existing developer workflows and vetted components can be automatically quarantined based on policy.

Everywhere
Nexus accelerates DevOps by integrating with the most widely used tools at every stage of the development pipeline.

At Scale
Automate security in a DevOps pipeline with precise component intelligence.

"Integrating security into DevOps to deliver `DevSecOps' requires changing mindsets, processes and technology. Security and risk management leaders must adhere to the collaborative, agile nature of DevOps to be seamless and transparent in the development process, making the Sec in DevSecOps silent."

"Nexus [Lifecycle] helps identify things that could be exploited...the level of intelligence that we're able to get from them is well `above and beyond' anything we had before, which has been helpful to paint a picture of actual 3rd party risks to people outside of security (i.e. the C-suite)."
--SENIOR SECURITY ARCHITECT DRIVING ROI, THE CASE FOR A PROVEN SCA PLATFORM,
HOBSON & COMPANY REPORT

But first, our data.
Our data quality is the lifeblood that powers our entire platform.
97% of Nexus Intelligence is exclusive to Sonatype.
The bulk of our data is collected from verified online advisories and our in-house team of 65 security researchers. In fact, Sonatype's team has uniquely discovered 1.4 million vulnerable component versions, providing more data than just what's in the National Vulnerability Database.
No false positives and no false negatives.
Through both automation and careful human curation, Nexus Intelligence is designed to give you results you can count on, saving you an average of $14,000 in time per developer per year.
When it comes to security, speed matters.
We implement a 12-hour fast track for critical and time-sensitive vulnerabilities. You'll experience a 30% reduction in probability of a breach and 90% reduction in developer time spent researching, securing approval of and downloading quality OSS components when using the Nexus Platform.
2
ACCELERATE INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

Full Spectrum Software Supply Chain Automation
Sonatype is the leader in developer-friendly, full-spectrum software supply chain management providing organizations total control of their cloud-native development lifecycles, including third-party open source code, first-party source code, and containerized code.

"We've increased time to market by 20% in areas that are using Nexus, which management is really happy about."
--SR. MANAGER, CI/CD
"By getting software into the company and into production without issues, we are better able to support the company earnings; Nexus Lifecycle has helped us increase the quality and predictability of our SDLC, increasing our business agility by 40%."
--IT ARCHITECT
DRIVING ROI, THE CASE FOR A PROVEN SCA PLATFORM, HOBSON & COMPANY REPORT

Empower teams with precise component intelligence that enforces policy and continuously eliminates risk.

Vet parts early and automatically stop defective components from entering your DevOps pipeline.

Manage libraries and store parts in a universal repository and share them across the DevOps pipeline.

Identify and remediate OSS risk in containers for build and run-time protection

Find and fix critical security, performance, reliability, and style issues in developer code.

3
ACCELERATE INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

Driving ROI with a Proven Platform
The value of a validated OSS governance and management solution is immediate and demonstrable.
ROI findings and attributes listed below are based on an organization with $30 million in annual revenue realizing significant financial benefits from an investment in Sonatype's Nexus Platform:
Developers
400 developers who each spend 1 hour per week researching, securing approval for and searching/downloading quality OSS components and 1 hour per week on remediation and rework.

"Customers interviewed reported 90% reduction in developer time spent researching, securing approval of, and downloading quality OSS components."
--DRIVING ROI, THE CASE FOR
A PROVEN SCA PLATFORM, HOBSON & COMPANY REPORT

"Customers reported a 75% reduction in time spent identifying locations of, and remediating, newly discovered vulnerable components."
--DRIVING ROI, THE CASE FOR
A PROVEN SCA PLATFORM, HOBSON & COMPANY REPORT

Application Security Teams
Application Security teams that spend a total of 80 hours per month on OSS governance and management (including reviewing and approving OSS components) and 20 hours reviewing each of their application releases (assuming 24 releases per year).
PROVEN ROI
The typical organization, with an initial investment of $250,000 generates a positive return in 2.7 months and a 3-year ROI of 635%.
Annual benefits exceed $2,155,000.

4
ACCELERATE INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

YOUR FIRST LINE OF DEFENSE AGAINST MODERN SOFTWARE SUPPLY CHAIN ATTACKS.
Automatically detect and prevent malicious cyber attacks.

Block malicious components from being downloaded into your dev pipelines

Quarantine suspicious components for further review

Perimeter Control for All Software Supply Chains
Better together: Protect your Nexus Repository(Pro) with Firewall.
Using Artifactory? No problem. Nexus Firewall supports JFrog's Artifactory.
5
ACCELERATE INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

Cache public components locally

Stage and manage release candidates

Source Code Repos + Package Registries
A CENTRAL SOURCE OF CONTROL
Universally manage all of your components, binaries, and build artifacts.

--HAGEN RAHN, SR. SOFTWARE ENGINEER,
SYSTEMA
IT CENTRAL STATION REVIEW

Store and distribute all popular formats with Proxy, Hosted, and Group repositories for enterprise-ready flexibility.

Improve speed-to-market, reduce build times, and streamline developer productivity across the entire SDLC.

Scale and deploy enterprise reliability in multi-site, highly available configurations on premises or in the cloud.

6
ACCELERATE INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

REPOSITORY COMPONENT INTELLIGENCE
Maintain a trusted repository with Repository Health Check.

Repository Health Check (RHC) provides up-to-date component intelligence, so your teams make informed decisions early on.

Learn how many OSS components are in your repositories and the severity of any existing vulnerabilities.

Understand your open source risk exposure at a glance with known security issues.

"It ensures our developers are utilizing safe, open-source components. Through the use of Nexus software, we know when they were downloaded and where they're being used. It has helped us increase the security of our applications." 
--A. EVANS (GOVERNMENT) IT CENTRAL STATION REVIEW

Search and store open source and third-party components for all popular formats.

Check the health of your open source components with up-to-date security, license, and quality information.

7
ACCELERATE INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

Precise intelligence for healthier component choice early in development.

Choosing a safe component is as easy as using spell check.

Deliver component intelligence to developers in the tools they use every day like IDEs and source control.

Early detection and remediation prevents unplanned work, security breaches and maintainability issues.

"I would give this product a nine out of ten. I'll have a full report of artifacts-- including those that are not secure--that would have been ingested into our organization. That information is priceless."
--C. CHANI (FINANCIAL SERVICES) IT CENTRAL STATION REVIEW

Identify which components violate policy from within the IDE.

Select best component version based on real-time intelligence.
8
ACCELERATE INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

Migrate to approved version with one click remediation.

Instantly access Nexus Intelligence data while searching for new packages.

 Component details: format, package, version
 Security info: Severity, source, threat category, reference details

 Licensing data: Declared and observed
 Remediation advice: Version history and recommended version

 Chrome Extension
View component intelligence and select the best packages when searching public repositories.

Source Control Management 
Highlights the specific lines of code that introduced a violation.
Shows the severity of the issue, along with the name, summary and description of the violation.
9
ACCELERATE INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

If a version is available that will fix the problem, the suggested remediation or upgrade path is also included.

Analyze and enforce policies automatically.

Ensure that policies are enforced as components are consumed across a variety of development tools.

Replace inefficient workflows and the burden of manual reviews.

Customize policies to meet specific compliance goals or mandates OR use our default policies to gain an immediate view of security, license, and quality risk.

Do it all with automation that supports agile and continuous goals!

Easily create custom policies across the software lifecycle.

"[Nexus Lifecycle] blocks undesirable open source components from entering our development lifecycle, based on the policies that we set. It will break the build straight away. There's no way you can ship code that introduces new vulnerabilities. We just don't allow it at all."
--E. KWAN (FINANCIAL SERVICES)
IT CENTRAL STATION REVIEW

Choose the applications or types to which the policy should be applied.

Set organization-wide policy on which violations can be dismissed and which cannot.

Define precisely when the policy applies and what actions should take place.

10
ACCELERATE INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

Verify policy compliance by knowing what components are used and where.

In just minutes, create an accurate software bill of materials for each application.

Identify specific components and their dependencies.

Gain access to name, license, age, popularity, known security vulnerabilities, and other metadata.

Know the exact location of any component -- no more searching to see if you are impacted by a new vulnerability.

"We're no longer building blindly with vulnerable components. We have awareness, we're pushing that awareness to developers, and we feel we have a better idea of what the threat landscape looks like. Things that we weren't even aware were vulnerabilities, we can now remediate really quickly."
--D. DUFFY (FINANCIAL SERVICES
IT CENTRAL STATION REVIEW

Developers view the threat that a violation has against an organization-wide policy.

Identify the component group, and the specific component and version used in any application.

Color codes identify critical (red), severe (orange) and moderate (yellow) risk levels. Severity criteria is configurable based on policy settings.

11
ACCELERATE DIGITAL INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

"Nexus Lifecycle gives us visibility into types of vulnerabilities that we didn't have before, including specific information about how the vulnerability is exploited and if we're vulnerable based on how we used it. The product also informs us which application or team it belongs to. The ease of research and identifying a remediation path has saved our developers 2-4 hours per Vulnerability."
--DEVOPS MANAGER, DRIVING ROI, THE CASE FOR
A PROVEN SCA PLATFORM, HOBSON & COMPANY REPORT

Get visibility and transparency for quick remediation.

One dashboard easily filtered to support development, operations, security, and compliance.

Prioritize remediation and development work based on detailed intelligence.

Track progress and trends for defects opened, fixed, waived, and discovered.

Reduce your technical debt and ease the maintenance burden.

Easy to understand description written for developers by developers.

In-depth research includes detailed detection and remediation guidance.

Find the best/fastest remediation path by linking to the component that brought in any transitive dependencies.
12
ACCELERATE DIGITAL INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

"There is a feature called Continuous Monitoring. Because of this feature, as time goes on we'll be able to know whether a platform is still secure or not. It's integrated, it's proactive, it's exactly what you want for a security product."
--C. CHANI (FINANCIAL SERVICES) IT CENTRAL STATION REVIEW

Continuously monitor for new defects.

An automated early warning system to identify newly discovered defects.

Detailed intelligence on vulnerabilities including precise root cause and component dependencies.

Ongoing monitoring and alerts of new vulnerabilities based on component, risk level, or applications affected.

Improve incident response times with precise identification of components and apps to be remediated.

View a list of all components that have policy violations in a particular stage. Identify which apps include those components.

Identify the total risk of each component as well as a breakdown by severity to determine which components should be remediated first.

Easily search for components based on application stage and policy types.

13
ACCELERATE DIGITAL INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

Identify and fix container vulnerabilities.
Nexus Lifecycle scans the application layer of your containers, and provides precise component intelligence for Java, JavaScript, NuGet, Python, etc.
Nexus Lifecycle leverages Nexus Container intelligence to directly provide information about your images and registries back in the same familiar Lifecycle report, alongside other application vulnerabilities and evaluation results

View open source risk at all layers (runtime, operating system, and application levels).

Precise and accurate identification and detailed remediation guidance for application-level vulnerabilities.

Single view into all open source risk with native Lifecycle dashboards and reports.

"Nexus has improved the time it takes us to release secure apps to market by saving us weeks of rework."
--SR. LEAD SOLUTION SERVICES (FINANCIAL SERVICES
IT CENTRAL STATION REVIEW

Get detailed remediation guidance and take action with a robust policy engine to set custom policies, apply waivers, and break builds.

View all application and container vulnerability information in one location.

14
ACCELERATE INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

Protect containers from build to production.
Full life cycle vulnerability (CVE) & compliance scanning -- during build, registry scans, and run-time. Manage container and application-level risk with admission controls to stop vulnerabilities from entering your SDLC, policy management to guide and enforce actions, and detailed remediation guidance

Real-time vulnerability scanning during run-time for hosts and orchestration platforms, such as Kubernetes.

Monitor live containers for suspicious process and file system activity and privilege escalation detection, with host process blocking.

Continuously monitor running containers to prevent insider attacks which bypass network L3/L4 protections and safeguard sensitive data, PII, credit cards etc., with the only container DLP engine.

Automatically inspect and learn all network traffic at Layer 7 including visualization of containers, connections, violations, threats -- in real-time.

Prevent vulnerable & non-compliant images from deploying with automated compliance testing as well as templates for: GDPR, PCI, HIPAA, and NIST.
 Integrated with orchestration and management platforms
15
ACCELERATE DIGITAL INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

Find critical bugs in your code, with the click of a button.
Lift provides developers feedback the same way their teammates do -- as comments in code review. The issues you need to care about, right where you want to see them, and at the moment you can most easily fix them.

24+ code analyzer integrations that go beyond traditional linting to perform deep code analysis to catch critical performance and reliability issues.

Lift finds security vulnerabilities in both your third-party opensource code and first-party source code.

Lift is pre-tuned to eliminate false positives and uses machine learning to measure which bugs developers fix most -- delivering more accurate results over time.

Simple to install on cloud repos or with Kubernetes and OpenShift, with 2-5x faster scan results. Both SaaS and self-hosted options work with any business or deployment model.

Catch code quality issues early in the dev pipeline to enhance SAST scans during final security reviews.
Analyze each pull request to find and fix security, performance, reliability, and style issues where they are 70x more likely to get fixed by developers.

16
ACCELERATE DIGITAL INNOVATION WITH AUTOMATED SECURITY

Integrations? You better believe it.
We work where you work.

SOURCE CONTROL

BUILD

REPOSITORY

RELEASE

DEVELOPERS

DEV QA UAT PROD

Shift Left with High Performance.
Test drive the power of Nexus Intelligence in five minutes.
Run a free Nexus Vulnerability Scan to learn about vulnerabilities in an app (yours or one of ours). Try it free at www.sonatype.com/appscan.
sonatype.com/get-nexus
GET STARTED TODAY!

Sonatype is the leader in developer-friendly, full-spectrum software supply chain management providing organizations total control of their cloud-native development life cycles, including third-party open source code, first-party source code, infrastructure as code, and containerized code. The company supports 70% of the Fortune 100 and its commercial and open source tools are trusted by 15 million developers around the world. With a vision to transform the way the world innovates, Sonatype helps organizations of all sizes build higher quality software that's more aligned with business needs, more maintainable, and more secure.
Sonatype has been recognized by Fast Company as one of the Best Workplaces for Innovators in the world, two years in a row and has been named to the Deloitte Technology Fast 500 and Inc. 5000 list for the past five years. For more information, please visit Sonatype.com, or connect with us on Facebook, Twitter, or LinkedIn.

Headquarters 8161 Maple Lawn Blvd. Suite 250 Fulton, MD 20759 United States 1.877.866.2836

Virginia Office 8281 Greensboro Dr. Suite 630 McLean, VA 22102

European Office 168 Shoreditch High St., 5th Floor London E1 6HU United Kingdom

APAC Office 60 Martin Place Level 1 Sydney, NSW 2000 Australia

Sonatype Inc. www.sonatype.com Sonatype Copyright 2020 All Rights Reserved.

