Data Sheet
Siriux Microsoft 365 SaaS Security Posture Management (SSPM)

Industry-leading Security Management

KEY BENEFITS AND CAPABILITIES

for Microsoft 365 Tenants

·

Every Microsoft 365 customer faces a host of security challenges.

How should administrators configure security settings? Ensure

that policies are followed? Protect privileged identities? The

Siriux SSPM Platform enables easy enforcement of security poli-

cies, provides best practices, prevents configuration drift, and

protects against sophisticated attacks. Our security guidance

·

helps operations and security teams bridge the gap from the

security obscurity of the Microsoft Security and Compliance

Center to actionable and measurable security improvement

within a matter of hours.

WHY IS SIRIUX THE BEST CHOICE?

The Siriux SSPM Platform is the only Microsoft 365 SSPM ap-

·

proved by Microsoft as an Azure App Gallery solution. Working

closely with Microsoft for years, we established ourselves as the

premier Microsoft 365 security protection solution. With integra-

tions that span both the SIEM and SOAR technology spectrum,

Siriux offers both tactical and strategic security guidance to pro-

tect Microsoft 365 services and users from ever-evolving attacks. ·

Point-in-Time and Continuous Compliance for Microsoft 365

Only Siriux offers both point-in-time and continuous security scanning options for our customers. Competitive solutions require significant integrations between their cloud-to-cloud scanning platforms at your Microsoft 365 tenant. These integrations
· can create additional security vulnerabilities if not properly managed and monitored. With us, customers can:

· Detect misconfigurations and high-risk default settings

· Create actionable project plans for remediation

· Establish secure baselines for change detection

M365 Security Visibility Go beyond the constraints of the Security and Compliance Center with insights gained from realworld attacks and intensive M365 red team experience.
Remediation Project Plans Every Siriux scan generates a project plan that provides security and operations impact ratings for each recommendation along with clear guidance on exactly which settings need to be re-configured.
Before-and-After Progress Maps Siriux customers can track their M365 security journey with clear indicators for when they have remediated high-risk configurations.
SIEM Integrations Using the Siriux Scan Engine, SOC teams can significantly reduce their M365 event ingestion load, saving SIEM resources for other logging and alerting tasks.
Complete M365 Coverage The Siriux team works with Microsoft and their Security Partner community to provide insights into M365 security vulnerabilities that no other SSPM platform provides.

· Protect privileged users from attacks

"SaaS applications act as the foundation of the modern enterprise. 2020 created an urgent need for security solutions that mitigate SaaS misconfiguration risks." The Hacker News, July 9, 2021

© 2021 Siriux Security Technologies, Inc. HTTPS://SIRIUX.TECH

