DATASHEET

POWERED BY GOOGLE CHRONICLE
Cybereason XDR
ACHIEVE 10X THE SECURITY RESULTS WITHOUT 10X THE WORK

PLANETARY-SCALE PROTECTION
AI-driven XDR combines the Cybereason MalOpTM, which analyzes over 23 trillion security events per week to deliver instant detection and incident response, with Google Chronicle's unrivaled ability to ingest and normalize petabytes of data from the entire IT environment for planetary-scale protection.
OPERATION-CENTRIC DETECTION AND RESPONSE
Instead of being alerted about individual events, users can instantly understand the entire attack progression across every device, user identity, application and cloud deployment to end them immediately. The Cybereason MalOp provides automated and guided response actions to reduce human error, upskill analysts and achieve a 10x faster time to response than competing solutions.
PREDICT ATTACKER BEHAVIOR
Defenders can shift from a labor-intensive, alert-centric posture to a predictive, operation-centric model. Through context-rich correlations, Cybereason XDR identifies subtle signs of malicious behavior and predicts an attacker's likely next steps to anticipate and proactively block attacks.

Your employees, IT infrastructure, and supply chains are distributed all around the world. Meanwhile, increasingly sophisticated adversaries have gained a significant advantage over traditional approaches to threat detection and response. Today's siloed strategies are expensive, introduce blind spots, and ultimately result in ineffective coverage. This is where the promise of eXtended Detection and Response comes into play.
In partnership with Google Cloud, Cybereason XDR powered by Chronicle predicts, understands, and ends attacks at planetary scale.

XDR INTEGRATIONS

WORKSPACE AND IDENTITY
CLOUD
NETWORK

Protect Employees Anywhere | Cybereason XDR protects your employees with effective security far beyond the endpoint. Through native integrations with email, productivity suites, identity and access management, and cloud deployments, find undetected signs of compromise and end malicious operations.
Identity Monitoring and Workload Protection | With native integrations into Azure, AWS, and Google Cloud, Cybereason XDR monitors for signs of account takeover and data exfiltration, and can protect cloud workloads against emerging threats like exploitation of undisclosed vulnerabilities and zero-day attacks.
Deep Network Telemetry Correlation | Cybereason XDR integrates with leading firewall and NDR vendors to consolidate alerts, correlate network context with user and asset activity, and enable automated or guided response actions from the XDR console. Save on storage and analytics costs while upskilling your analysts with intuitive, extensible threat hunting.

LEARN MORE AT CYBEREASON.COM

1

DATASHEET

XDR FEATURES

BUILD AN EFFECTIVE, SCALABLE APPROACH TO SECURITY OPERATIONS.
PROTECT YOUR EMPLOYEES ACROSS ALL THE WAYS THEY WORK
IMPROVE INCIDENT RESPONSE TIMES FROM HOURS TO MINUTES

Infosec teams today are facing burnout and overload from low-context alerts, of which more than half are typically false positives. As organizations expand and add assets and data sources, log management and SIEM solutions struggle to scale and become increasingly cost-prohibitive. Cybereason XDR provides a unified investigation and response experience that links together the diverse ways we work: on remote endpoints, mobile devices, cloud platforms, and email to prevent, end, and predict malicious operations.
To an attacker, anything connected to the internet is part of a company's attack surface. For Defenders, we must rely on siloed solutions each monitoring a specific part of our network. With diverse and deep integrations, Cybereason XDR delivers enhanced correlations across Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) and Indicators of Behavior (IOBs), the more subtle signs of network compromise. Out-of-the-box, Cybereason XDR provides Predictive Ransomware Protection and automatically blocks malicious executions and activity. Cybereason XDR allows analysts to understand how a malicious operation unfolds across email, cloud, endpoint, and network -- and exactly what to do about it.
Despite spending millions of dollars on cybersecurity tools over the past few years, most organizations still can't detect or respond to cyber attacks in a reasonable timeframe. Cybereason XDR breaks down the data silos that attackers rely on to remain undetected by unifying device and identity correlations for faster, more effective threat detection and response while unlocking new predictive capabilities that enable defenders to anticipate and end future attacks before they begin.

ALERTING ISN'T ENOUGH. THAT'S WHY WE BUILT THE MALOPTM
Cybereason delivers actionable context, so you can achieve 10x the results across your security operations without 10x the work.

PLANETARY-SCALE PROTECTION
Cybereason AI-driven XDR distinguishes between benign and malicious behavior, and links those behaviors across assets and identities for faster root cause analysis and incident scoping. Shift away from chasing false positives to identifying broader MalOps, analyzing all possible attack sequences, and ending attacks.

OPERATION-CENTRIC DETECTION AND RESPONSE
Cybereason XDR enables comprehensive monitoring across the entire attack surface to identify patterns and predict potential threats on a broader scale--connecting the dots between seemingly disparate or innocuous events to recognize indicators or behavior and take action to prevent or stop threats.

PREDICT ATTACKER BEHAVIOR
Cybereason XDR provides security teams with a multilayer response framework, ranging from automatic prevention of threats like ransomware to guided response on what to do for each part of a detected malicious operation across endpoints, identities, and networks.

10X FASTER RESPONSE TIMES
Cybereason XDR breaks down traditional data silos that attackers use to remain undetected by unifying device and identity correlations for faster, more effective threat detection and response. Predictive analytics enable defenders to anticipate an attacker's next steps and proactively mitigate risk.

PROTECT WHAT MATTERS TO YOUR BUSINESS

Endpoint Prevent Ransomware
·Prevent Malicious Executions ··Malware Intrusion Lookback

Workspace & Identity Business Email Compromise
·Stolen User Accounts ··Data Theft & Malicious
Behaviors

·Cloud Dangerous Cloud
·· Misconfigurations Crypto-Jacking & Malware
API Misuse

···Network Anomalous Connections Lateral Movement Anomalous Data Exfiltration

LEARN MORE AT CYBEREASON.COM

2

PRODUCT BRIEF

Cybereason EDR
MITIGATE THREATS BEFORE THEY BECOME BREACHES

KEY BENEFITS
Understand the entire attack in seconds
Control your environment with full visibility and integrated remediation tools
Remediate threats with a single click
Enhance your existing security team
Build detection rules across Windows, macOS, Linux, Android, and iOS

Detection in seconds - Remediation in minutes
As attackers develop more sophisticated methods of attack, it's becoming harder to confidently address threats. During an incident, every second counts. Security and IT teams are often slowed down from a lack of context from alerts, excessive manual work required to investigate, limited automation, and a lengthy effort to remediate. These challenges often result in added uncertainty and outright fatigue.
Cybereason EDR consolidates all intelligence about each attack into a single visual representation called a MalOpTM (malicious operation). Each MalOpTM organizes the relevant attack data into an easy-to-read, interactive graphical interface, providing a complete timeline of the attack, the flow of malware across processes and users, and all incoming and outgoing communications for affected machines. Remediation actions can be automated or accomplished remotely with a click.

Respond instantly to remediate at scale
The Cybereason XDR Platform empowers analysts of all skill levels to quickly dig into the details of an attack without crafting complicated queries and easily pivot directly from investigating a Malop to remediating affected machines. With Cybereason EDR, analysts can execute a full suite of remediation actions from machine isolation and process killing to removing persistence mechanisms, all from within an intuitive point and click interface.
Hunt threats proactively
Cybereason EDR allows proactive, automated threat hunting to uncover IOCs and IOBs (indicators of compromise and behavior) hidden within the environment. Our advanced threat hunting platform turns unfiltered endpoint data into actionable intelligence and provides an intuitive user interface for syntax-free investigations, enabling L1/L2 analysts to perform like L3s - a true force multiplier.

LEARN MORE AT CYBEREASON.COM

1

PRODUCT BRIEF CYBEREASON EDR

Detect Advanced Attacks
The Cybereason XDR Platform collects data from all endpoints across all operating systems. It uses behavioral analysis and data correlation across all devices to give a complete picture of activity in your environment. The realtime correlation of data across all machines allows you to take into account the most critical information about an attack with fewer false positives. This results in detailed, correlated, and enriched data from every endpoint to reduce the potential for gaps in detection.

A full suite of remediation actions
With the Cybereason XDR Platform's remediation tools, analysts can execute a full suite of remediation actions--from machine isolation to killing processes to removing persistence - all from the console using a point-and-click interface. The Cybereason XDR Platform empowers users of every skill set to act. Analysts can pivot directly from investigating an attack to remediating all affected machines through a single click of a button, saving time and creating a more efficient workstream for your team.

Security for all
With Cybereason EDR, there are no special skills required. New team members can investigate and remediate without calling on senior team members, and advanced teams can leverage intuitive investigation and remediation tools to pivot from one attack to another and spend more time hunting and less time triaging. The intuitive UI of Cybereason EDR was designed to increase SOC efficiency by automating common tasks and empowering any member of the SOC to quickly understand the scope and impact of threats so that they can act immediately.

Prefered operating systems for version 20.1 of the Cybereason Platform Endpoint Sensor

WINDOWS

MAC

LINUX

ANDROID

Windows 10

macOS Catalina (10.15)

CentOS 6, 7, 8

Android 7

Windows 8.1

macOS Mojave (10.14)

RedHat Enterprise Linux 6, 7, 8 Android 8

Windows 8

macOS High Sierra (10.13)

Oracle Linux 6, 7, 8

Android 9

Windows 7 SP1

macOS Sierra (10.12)

Debian 8, 9, 10

Android 10

Windows 11, 21, H2

macOS BigSur 11

Amazon Linux AMI 2017.03

Android 11

Windows Server 2019

macOS Monterey 12

Amazon Linux 2

Android 12

Windows Server 2016

IOS

Ubuntu 14 LTS, 16 LTS, 18.04 LTS,

Windows Server 2012 R2

iOS 11

Ubuntu 20.04 LTS, 20.10

Windows Server 2012

iOS 12

Windows Server 2008 R2 SP1 iOS 13

Windows Server 2022

iOS 14

iOS 15

For a full list of supported operating systems, including older operating systems such as Windows XP, please reach out to sales@cybereason.com

ABOUT CYBEREASON
Cybereason is the XDR company, partnering with Defenders to end attacks at the endpoint, in the cloud and across the entire enterprise ecosystem. Only the Cybereason AI-Driven XDR Platform provides predictive prevention, detection and response that is undefeated against modern ransomware and advanced attack techniques. The Cybereason MalOpTM instantly delivers context-rich attack intelligence across every affected device, user, and system with unparalleled speed and accuracy. Cybereason turns threat data into actionable decisions at the speed of business. Cybereason is a privately held international company headquartered in Boston with customers in more than 40 countries.

CYBEREASON.COM/DEMO

LEARN MORE AT CYBEREASON.COM

2

PRODUCT BRIEF

CYBEREASON

PREVENTION

KEY BENEFITS

Move Beyond Legacy A/V With Multi-Layered Prevention

· Reduce the risk of unknown threats with real-time behavioral prevention
· Eliminate ransomware threats with behavioral and deception techniques

How Defenders Outhink and Outpace Threats
New and sophisticated malware is detected every day, which presents huge threats to security and IT teams. With both legacy and nextgen solutions, security teams often suffer from overly complex workflows, gaps in detection, and resource-heavy agents. These factors contribute to a poor overall defense posture, high levels of fatigue, and the need for yet more tools and resources to support.
Cybereason Prevention combines signature-based, behavioral, and machine-learning approaches to end threats in real-time ­ including known, never-before-seen and fileless threats. Teams can deploy in a matter of hours with a single, lightweight agent for all operating systems and endpoint types. From there, investigation is easy, with full context available to analysts directly from a single UI within the platform ­ now less time is wasted switching between screens, and more is spent investigating threats.
Stop Any Threats in Real Time
Cybereason Prevention employs a multi-layered approach through intelligence-based conviction capabilities to block known threats and machine learning algorithms that analyze behavioral and static attributes to instantly block fileless attacks, new malware variants, and other novel threats, eliminating lengthy investigations. The machine learning algorithms analyze both behavioral

and static attributes of processes and files ­ blocking the execution of fileless attacks, new malware variants, and never-beforeseen threats, instantly. Behavioral prevention of unknown threats ensures gaps in defenses are addressed.

· Prevent fileless and in-memory attacks with deep script visibility
· Consolidate multiple agents into a single, lightweight agent
· Deploy effortlessly, in as little as 24 hours
· Shorten lengthy investigations with correlated threat information via an intuitive UI
· Leverage Endpoint Controls to satisfy access and compliance security needs
· Remediate at scale with a single click

Deep Visibility into Fileless Attacks
Modern threats require that security products have deep visibility. To enable security teams to counter the growing risks of fileless attacks, Cybereason Prevention leverages the same agent used in its Endpoint Detection and Response product in order to achieve unparalleled efficacy into malicious processes and scripts. First in the market to block malicious .Net execution, the Cybereason Defense Platform provides high fidelity detection of PowerShell scripts, .Net abuse, Macro scripts, and other challenging threats to reduce investigation workloads and time required to respond for resource-constrained security teams.

Stop Ransomware Before Harm Occurs
More and more, organizations are facing a slew of ransomware attacks. This trend represents a considerable risk. Cybereason has developed a unique combination of deception and behavioral techniques to stop ransomware before damage is done. Cybereason Prevention can automatically detect and block unknown, fileless, and even MBR-based ransomware strains. This allows teams to leverage automatic behavioral prevention, in conjunction with deception techniques, to ensure legitimate files are not encrypted during an attack.
Reduce Investigation Time with An Intuitive UI
Prevention is necessary but it is often only the first step in an attack. Understanding the root cause of an attack, and addressing it, is the real battle. With Cybereason Prevention, security teams are able to use a single interface to view, prioritize, investigate, and remediate alerts for all impacted devices. From any alert, analysts are able to go further in a few clicks, easily acquiring the context they need to take action, and eliminating the need for complex workflows between different products.
Remediate on All Devices with A Single Click
When a threat is discovered and blocked, Cybereason Prevention allows analysts to quickly take action with a myriad of remediation choices. If more than one endpoint is affected, analysts can easily remediate all affected devices quickly and easily, with a single click.
A Single, Lightweight Agent for All Functionality
Cybereason Prevention offers multi-layered prevention combining NGAV and Endpoint Controls with minimal impact on speed and resources, all without the need to deploy multiple agents. The Cybereason Defense Platform combines endpoint prevention (EPP) with our industry leading Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) solution and proactive threat hunting to deliver comprehensive security through a single lightweight agent and intuitive user interface.

About Cybereason
Defending against today's threats requires security teams to prevent and cut the noise against known attacks, while quickly detecting
and remediating advanced attacks. The Cybereason Defense Platform combines endpoint prevention, detection, and response all with one lightweight agent. Multi-layered
endpoint prevention is delivered using signature and signatureless techniques to prevent known and unknown threats, and
behavioral and deception techniques to prevent ransomware and fileless attacks.

CYBEREASON.COM/DEMO

Learn more at Cybereason.com

