THE HIGHBOND PLATFORM
Governance Software for Strong Risk Management

Connecting governance, risk, & compliance (GRC) professionals with the answers that drive change--so they can protect the organization and increase its capacity to meet strategic objectives. Take spreadsheets, manual processes, and collaboration struggles out of your team's day and get back to focusing on high-value activities that help your organization achieve its goals. HighBond centralizes your activities in a purpose-built dashboard, and aggregates your data for real-time decision making and reporting.
Why Choose Highbond?
Strategic Risk View & Single Source of Truth Executives, boards, and oversight committees need intel on what could derail objectives and potential mitigation efforts. Regulators also frown on risk being managed in spreadsheets. HighBond gives you a centrally managed, holistic view of your risk balance-sheet.
No More Silos & Spreadsheets Let dedicated technology do your heavy lifting. Plan, manage, execute, and report on your assurance projects in one system.
Triggered Workflow Remediation for Flagged Records Get notified as soon as data analysis uncovers a potential issue. HighBond triggers remediation workflows to help you collaborate, keep tabs on remediation status, and track all efforts in a single system.
Issue Management & Tracking Stop tracking issues over email and instead get a macro view of all your organizational issues, filtered by entity, project, owner, or severity--and check the remediation status with the click of a button.

Figure 1: Quantify risk assurance by objectives Figure 2: Strategic risk heatmap

Customer ROI:

62%
Say HighBond has improved the value they deliver to their stakeholders.

40%
Less time spent documenting
and reviewing.

80%
Find the product "easy" or "very easy" to learn.

Offline & Remote Work
Out in the field/away from the office? No problem. Unplug your PC or tablet, do your work, capture supporting documentation, and sync it all later.
Risk Assurance & Frameworks
Let the system keep you on track by modeling one or many common frameworks like COSO, ISO, SOX, OMB A-123, Green Book, COBIT, ITIL, SIEM, NIST, SOC, and many others.
Investigations & Forensic Workflows
Security incidents, possible fraud, whistle-blower hotlines, special investigations, and forensics may all require escalations and workflow alerts. Manage these in a centralized, permissionsbased workflow.
Reporting & Visualization
Senior managers just don't have time to read the details. Your value is taking GRC complexity and distilling it into a compelling picture, story, dashboard, KPI/KRI, standard or custom report, which can be quickly understood and acted on.

Public Sector Workflow
Plan, execute, and report on projects to protect expenditures of services and benefits with a workflow that eases your resourcestrapped environment.
Uncover Missing Risks
Excel analytics are incapable of uncovering 80% of the risks that matter. Assessing people responses is equally important to assessing entire data sets, and comprehensively integrating people, processes, and data reveals hidden strategic risks.
Secure, Cloud-Based SaaS
Enterprise-hosted environments suffer higher incident rates. While your IT's expertise is running your business, our cloud infrastructure host's expertise is stringent security. Free up your IT, better protect your data--and empower your users with continuous delivery of always up-to-date value-driving tools.
Tools & Resources
Your subscription includes online training, a global community of other DiligentTM users and experts, a library of pre-built risk analysis scripts, a rich knowledge base, an inspirations platform of ideas, and complete user guides.

Application Use Cases

Audit

Compliance & Legal

Information Technology

Risk Management

· Risk-based auditing,
workpapers
management
· Audit analytics &
tracking flagged
records through
remediation
· Global issues
oversight, executive
& management
reporting,
KPIs, KRIs, and
dashboards

· Full compliance
management workflow based on compliance frameworks and key controls for ICFR, SOX, HIPAA, GLBA, FCPA, AML, and more
· Track Code
of Conduct compliance
· Assessments of
people via surveys, attestation tracking

· Manage IT
Governance, IT
Compliance, or IT
Security needs
· Centralize your
IT risk/control
framework, capture
self-assessments
· Manage and report
on IT issues and
incidents

· Manage risk
management processes & risk framework
· Manage risk
evaluation, assessment treatment, transfer of risks
· Converge multi-
department GRC activities for better collaboration, transparency, sharing, and oversight

Accounting & Finance

Public Sector

· Monitor material
revenue and
expense processes
· Tax compliance,
transfer pricing,
T&E, and P-Card
compliance
· Investigations

· Yellow Book, Green
Book, OMB A-123
· Audit readiness,
entitlement
oversight,
investigations
· Integrate records
from disbursement
for review workflow
of third-party risk
and improper
payments

About DiligentTM
Diligent created the modern governance movement. As the leading governance, risk and compliance (GRC) SaaS company, we serve 1 million users from over 25,000 customers around the globe. Our innovative platform gives leaders a connected view of governance, risk, compliance and ESG across their organization. Our world-changing idea is to empower leaders with the technology, insights and connections they need to drive greater impact and accountability ­to lead with purpose.
For more information or to request a demo, contact us today: Email: info@diligent.com | Call: +1 877 434 5443 | Visit: diligent.com
© 2022 Diligent Corporation. "Diligent" is a trademark of Diligent Corporation, registered in the US Patent and Trademark Office. "Diligent Boards" and the Diligent logo are trademarks of Diligent Corporation. All third-party trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.

