DATASHEET
OneTrust Questionnaire Response Automation (QRA) & Vendor Portal
Use AI to automatically answer any incoming security, privacy, or compliance questionnaires
Many organizations face hurdles when completing security, privacy, and compliance questionnaires ­ a critical but necessary step in the sales process. Responding to these endless questionnaires is time consuming and repetitive. We created QRA & Vendor Portal to help you manage information requests and automate questionnaire completion. Manage all incoming requests for information, build an answer library, automatically answer assessments, and build your company's Trust Profile to securely share sensitive documentation and evidence.
Automatically Answer Customer Questionnaires and Proactively Share Compliance Details QRA & Vendor Portal enables organizations to build trust with customers. Together, the solutions help you streamline and collaborate on information requests, automatically answer questionnaires, centralize certifications and documentation, as well as securely share and easily promote your compliance program to your customers.

Autocomplete Customer Questionnaires
Spend less time manually answering questionnaires and autocomplete them with powerful AI, ML, and NLP ­ even if
they're custom.

Streamline Response Activities
Manage all incoming questionnaire requests in a single dashboard and streamline your response processes with
automated workflows.

Catalog and Maintain Answer Libraries
Build libraries to save your latest answers and documentation, enabling stakeholders from key teams to find the
right information.

Securely Share Answers and Evidence
Leverage a secure portal to share (and control access to) sensitive information, providing a
centralized customer communication channel for recordkeeping purposes.

Build Transparency with Your Trust Profile
Centralize security, privacy, compliance, and other information into a single Trust Profile to securely share with customers
and thousands of OneTrust users.

DATASHEET
OneTrust QRA & Vendor Portal
Autocomplete Custom Questionnaires Without Ever Copying and Pasting · Spend less time manually answering questionnaires and autocomplete them with powerful AI, ML, and NLP ­ even if they're custom · Automatically map answers within your library to incoming questionnaires using our proprietary AI Autocomplete technology · Train the AI to get smarter with every questionnaire for any use case including security, privacy, due diligence, or RFPs Build Workflows and Centralize All Questionnaire Response Activities · Centralize questionnaire and information requests into a single portal to track completion status and drive response efficiency · Build custom workflows to process incoming requests and track progress for greater accountability · Collaborate with required stakeholders in one place and track response progress across requests to better identify bottlenecks
Centralize and Maintain Responses and Documentation · Save and catalog responses from completed questionnaire and supporting documentation to create answer libraries · Create automated reminders for every stakeholder involved to ensure answers and documentation are up to date and accurate · Maintain activity trails and version history to track and reference any changes to answer and document libraries
Securely Share Answers & Evidence with Customers and Prospects · Use a secure portal to centralize back-and-forth communication with inquiring parties to keep your information safe · Secure documentation by controlling access rights and expirations to sensitive information · Efficiently facilitate and track NDAs with automation to keep information secure
Build Transparency with Your Trust Profile · Consolidate your compliance details, certifications, completed questionnaires, and supporting docs in a single Trust Profile · Enable your sales teams to proactively share your Trust Profile to build trust with customers · Embed a link to your Trust Profile on your website to practice transparency with customers and prospects
REQUEST DEMO AT ONETRUST.COM
ATLANTA | LONDON | BANGALORE | MELBOURNE | DENVER | SEATTLE SAN FRANCISCO | NEW YORK | SÃO PAULO | MUNICH | PARIS | HONG KONG | BANGKOK OneTrust is the category-defining enterprise platform to operationalize trust. More than 12,000 customers, including half of the Fortune Global 500, use OneTrust to make trust a competitive differentiator, implementing central agile workflows across Privacy and Data Governance, GRC and Security Assurance, Ethics and Compliance, and ESG and Sustainability. The OneTrust platform is backed by 200 patents and powered by the OneTrust AthenaTM AI and robotic automation engine. Learn more: OneTrust.com and LinkedIn.
Copyright © 2022 OneTrust LLC. All rights reserved. Proprietary & Confidential.

DATASHEET
Reduce Your Vendor Risks with the OneTrust Third-Party Risk Exchange
Easily access risk analytics and control gap reports on all your vendors
The Third-Party Risk Exchange Automates Vendor Risk Analysis & Control Identification Spend less time asking vendors questions and more time analyzing results.
Are your vendors safe to do business with? Find out with the ThirdParty Risk Exchange, a global community where you can access risk analytics and control gap reports on thousands of vendors without ever getting bogged down in the back-and-forth of an assessment.
The Exchange provides results faster than a traditional vendor assessment and automatically calculates your vendors' risk posture against the major standards, frameworks, and laws, including NIST, ISO, SIG, GDPR, NY DFS, and many more. The Exchange is reinventing the vendor risk assessment, focusing less on questions and answers, and more on what matters most: the risk and compliance implications of working with a vendor.
Reduce Risks, Save Time, Only Work with Vendors You Trust The Exchange pinpoints your riskiest third parties, helping you make better decisions ­ faster. · Tier vendors and prioritize the ones that matter most with out-of-the-box Auto Inherent Risk scores · Leverage built-in cyber risk and Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) scores to see the cybersecurity and ESG
posture of your vendors at a glance · See Trust Profiles on all Exchange vendors, including security, privacy, and compliance information · Save time reviewing answers and focus on results with risk analytics & control gaps across 18 risk domains · Get updates when a vendor's security posture changes, without having to conduct a reassessment
Support for 50+ Global Standards, Frameworks, and Laws

DATASHEET
The Value of a Community-Based Approach
Redefining third-party risk for everyone involved, both you and your vendors
Solving Third-Party Risk, Together Join a global community of organizations dedicated to reducing the burden of vendor risk assessments. Join a global community of organizations dedicated to reducing the burden of vendor risk assessments. Nearly all organizations operate on both sides of the vendor risk assessment equation, acting as the assessor in some cases, and the respondent in others. The Exchange simplifies both use cases. For Exchange customers (i.e. assessors), instead of sending questionnaires, you simply make a request for a vendor's risk and control information via the Exchange. Vendors that are existing Exchange contributors (i.e. respondents) can easily review and approve the request. If the vendor is not yet an Exchange contributor, our team will work directly with them to help them join. Exchange contributors submit information about their security program just once. This information is only available to requesting organizations following expressed approval. As an additional value-add, Exchange contributors can leverage our free AI autocomplete technology to answer any custom questionnaire they receive, whether it's through a technology platform like OneTrust or via a spreadsheet. Exchange contributors can join for free today at onetrust.com/join.
Investing in the Standard for Third-Party Risk, Mapped to Your Needs Used by 15,000+ members worldwide and covers 18 different risk domains. The Exchange uses the Shared Assessments SIG to generate risk analytics and control gaps across 50+ standards, frameworks and laws. When viewing Exchange results, you can filter by your preferred standard, framework, or law to see the risks and control gaps in the context most relevant to your business.
REQUEST DEMO AT ONETRUST.COM
ATLANTA | LONDON | BANGALORE | MELBOURNE | DENVER | SEATTLE SAN FRANCISCO | NEW YORK | SÃO PAULO | MUNICH | PARIS | HONG KONG | BANGKOK OneTrust is the category-defining enterprise platform to operationalize trust. More than 12,000 customers, including half of the Fortune Global 500, use OneTrust to make trust a competitive differentiator, implementing central agile workflows across Privacy and Data Governance, GRC and Security Assurance, Ethics and Compliance, and ESG and Sustainability. The OneTrust platform is backed by 200 patents and powered by the OneTrust AthenaTM AI and robotic automation engine. The OneTrust platform is backed by 200 patents and powered by the OneTrust AthenaTM AI.
Learn more:OneTrust.comandLinkedIn.

DATASHEET
Third-Party Risk Management Software
Software to build, automate, and scale your Third-Party Risk Management program
Reduce Your Vendor, Supplier, and Third-Party Risks
With OneTrust Third-Party Risk Management Software, you can: Build your vendor inventory and streamline vendor onboarding. Automate vendor risk assessments with intelligent risk flagging. Reduce risks with automated risk mitigation workflows. Monitor vendor risk and performance over time. Improve your program and demonstrate compliance with powerful reporting.

INVENTORY
Automate vendor onboarding and create a central vendor inventory to track relevant
information on all your third parties.

ASSESSMENTS
Conduct vendor risk assessments with our assessment automation functionality, creating
workflows to streamline the process.

MITIGATION
Implement any control framework, add any risk category, edit your risk scoring methodology, and build automated treatment workflows.

MONITORING
Monitor vendor risk and performance, leveraging our automation engine to take
action when significant issues arise.

REPORTING
Track compliance details and critical metrics with editable dashboards, executive-ready PDF builders, and in-depth risk analytics.

Support for 100s of Laws, Standards, and Frameworks

and hundreds more...

DATASHEET

Third-Party Risk Management Software
Software to build, automate, and scale your Third-Party Risk Management program

Streamline Vendor Onboarding and Centralize Your Vendor Inventory

· Prioritize your vendor inventory with auto-inherent risk

· Gain visibility over all your vendors in one central inventory

· Save time with automated vendor onboarding workflows

· Aggregate individual vendor details into a single, editable profile

Automate Vendor Risk Assessments with Intelligent Risk Flagging

· Get started with 50+ out-of-the-box assessment templates

· Edit questions, rules logic, and risk scoring with assessment editor

· Import and edit own custom assessment to meet your needs

· Streamline your assessment processes with workflow automation

Reduce Vendor Risks with Automated Mitigation Workflows

· Track risks over time to show program improvement

· Act faster by auto-assigning the right risk owners at the right time

· Edit risk scoring, categories, and rules directly through the UI

· Simplify decisions with mitigation recommendations

· Choose from 25+ control frameworks or use your own

Monitor Vendor Risk and Performance Over Time · Listen for critical vendor changes with OneTrust AthenaTM AI · Trigger actions and notifications when new risks are detected · Automate business reviews to track performance over time

· Create reassessment triggers with contract expirations & more · Build workflows across systems with 500+ pre-built plugins

Track Key Metrics with Editable Dashboards and Executive-Ready PDFs

· Build dashboards to surface critical metrics for your program

· Stay up to date with real-time reporting and notifications

· Create dashboard views based on user role and preferences

· Demonstrate compliance with automatic recordkeeping

· Export brandable PDF reports to review with executives

REQUEST DEMO AT ONETRUST.COM

AUSTRALIA | BRAZIL | CANADA | FRANCE | GERMANY JAPAN | UNITED KINGDOM | UNITED STATES
OneTrust is the category-defining enterprise platform to operationalize trust. More than12,000customers, including half of the Fortune Global 500,use OneTrust to make trust a competitive differentiator, implementing central agile workflows across privacy, security, data governance, GRC, third-party risk, ethics and compliance, and ESG programs. The OneTrust platform is backed by 200 patents and powered by the OneTrust AthenaTM AI. Our offerings include OneTrust Privacy, OneTrust DataDiscoveryTM, OneTrust DataGovernanceTM, OneTrust VendorpediaTM, OneTrust GRC, OneTrust Ethics, OneTrust PreferenceChoiceTM. Learn more: OneTrust.com and LinkedIn.
Copyright © 2022 OneTrust LLC. All rights reserved. Proprietary & Confidential.

