Reduce risks, automate controls, and lower the cost of compliance.

The challenge
50% of participants said their company has the right data, today, to anticipate and manage existing and emerging risk.
Only 33% said they have the right technology and tools to do so.
Source: PwC 2020 Global Risk Study

Our solution
A technology platform infused with trusted PwC knowledge to help automate the operation and testing of controls.
Based on PwC's risk and regulatory knowledge, our experience around enterprise applications and subsequent intellectual property can help to save you time and money in the way you manage and operate your internal controls.
Lower compliance costs
Automating the operation and testing of controls replaces time consuming manual processes, helping free your resources to focus on what matters most.
Control the unexpected
Trusted PwC intellectual property helps deliver transparency and timely discovery across your control environment.
Designate accountability
Route insights to the right business owner at the right time to help immediately identify risk anomalies or potential issues.

Benefits to your business stakeholders
Anticipate the future, help increase strategic impact

Management
Automate the operation of controls to help mitigate risks.

Compliance
Monitor controls to manage and reduce risks.

Internal Audit
End-to-end automation of audit activities and testing.

Enterprise Control can provide clear visibility into your risks and can help create an intelligent controls environment with the following capabilities:

ERP Control Design
Integrate technology enabled controls into and around your business application during the ERP implementation.
Security Design Modeling Help accelerate and model your security design with
PwC's design assistant, a library of pre-configured roles, to get security right from the start.
Risk & Control Management
Connect controls to tasks, assign individuals to workflows and help identify issues with remediation plans for transparency and accountability.

Automation of Internal Control Testing
Automate the extraction and analysis of relevant control evidence to automatically create test workpapers for internal controls.
Analysis of Transactions
Identify erroneous and/or unauthorized transactions in your system and help determine the qualitative and quantitative impact.
Automated System Monitoring
Continuously monitor your system configuration, master data, security or transactions and identify changes as they occur.

Infused with PwC knowledge and experience
Enterprise Control has been used to support thousands of clients across multiple sectors and includes a continuously-expanding library of capabilities that helps organizations manage a multitude of risks across their environment.
© 2021 PwC. All rights reserved. PwC refers to the US member firm, and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. This content is for general information purposes only, and should not be used as a substitute for consultation with professional advisors.

Contact
Stephen D'Arcy Principal, Cyber, Risk & Reg stephen.j.darcy@pwc.com
Elizabeth McNichol Principal, Cyber, Risk & Reg elizabeth@pwc.com
Robert Clark Principal, Cyber, Risk & Reg robert.h.clark@pwc.com
Stephen Sullivan Principal, Cyber, Risk & Reg stephen.sullivan@pwc.com
Scott Osterman Partner, Cyber, Risk & Reg scott.a.osterman@pwc.com

Prevent tomorrow's threats today

The challenge
The cost of risk is rising as fraud continues to evolve
$42B losses reported due to fraud in the past 24 months
Source: PwC's Global Economic Crime and Fraud Survey, 2020

Our solution
What if you could help assess and manage financial crime from one consolidated place?
Ready Assess, a PwC Product, empowers your organization to think faster and act quicker to stay on top of the ever-changing world of financial risk. It streamlines the disparate parts of risk assessments into a single centralized platform--making the entire process visual, interactive, trackable and actionable from set-up through analysis. Spend less time on manual tasks and more time knowing what risks and controls to focus on so you can help increase your protection.

Enhance workflow efficiency
Ready Assess helps transform the manual spreadsheet-based assessment process into a fully digital approach, further reducing the possibilities for human error and time wasted on repetitive work.
Improve consistency across your enterprise
With all your assessment questions organized into a template you control, your process can be standardized for more dependable scoring throughout your various lines of business.
Promote process accountability
Utilize a fully searchable audit history of actions taken on any assessment to understand who or what data drove a given response and gain a better view of your historic decision-making.
Be prepared with a data-driven approach
Access an ever-expanding library of assessment questions and other relevant content that adapts to ongoing disruptions and other significant changes in global financial crime.

The Ready Assess difference
Enabled by 30+ years of financial crimes experience

Get assessments on demand
The end-to-end risk assessment process is consolidated in one place digitally so you can see results whenever you want and know your resources are allocated to the right initiatives.

Customize to fit your methodology
Build a centralized approach tailored to your organization's needs with configurable assessment entities, scoring, questions, reporting and workflow.

See risk, differently
Interactive reporting allows you to segment data and create visually-rich charts so it's easy to understand the big picture of financial risk or drill deeper into the finer details for new insights.
.

How does Ready Assess help you identify, assess and respond to risk?

Start with a configurable approach
Ready Assess is simple to set up and can connect easily with your existing APIs and data files. It keeps users notified of any updates, making your assessments quickly adaptable to any changes.

Leverage a transparent roadmap
Get the flexibility to customize roles for every member of your team. With a clear view of your assessments, you can enable each user to focus on doing only what they are approved to do.

Get more insights and less spreadsheets
Thanks to an automated scoring engine, your team is freed up to focus on core aspects--whether it's informing decisions on new markets or identifying opportunities within current markets.

Keep track of everything
Facilitate continuous collaboration across your organization. The timeline feature tracks all actions, by all users, so internal teams can find changes that could have impacted any given assessment.

Source smart, quick and seamlessly
From transaction monitoring systems to core banking systems, you'll get smooth integration with your third-party vendors. Access the data you need directly without leaving the platform.

Monitor your progress in near real-time
Get up-to-date statistics on all your assessments across your risk and control categories. See which questions have been completed and how many are pending responses in a single glance.

Financial institutions should be thinking about how to modernize their financial crime workforce. PwC is clearly helping financial institutions navigate that journey, overcome internal resistance, change the culture, and get buy-in at all levels.
Steven D'Alfonso, SIDoCurFcineaNnacimaleInasnigdh/tosr Title, Company Name
© 2022 PwC. All rights reserved. PwC refers to the US member firm, and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. This content is for general information purposes only, and should not be used as a substitute for consultation with professional advisors.

Contact
Vikas Agarwal Principal, Financial Crimes Unit Leader PwC US vikas.k.agarwal@pwc.com
Vas Chrisos Principal, Financial Crimes Unit PwC US vasilios.p.chrisos@pwc.com
John Sabatini Principal, Risk Assurance PwC US john.a.sabatini@pwc.com

Combat bribery and corruption risk with the power of AI

The challenge
78%
of chief executives do not believe their risk exposure data to be comprehensive enough to inform their decisions
Source: PwC, 22nd Annual Global CEO Survey, 2019

Our solution
What if you had a clearer view of your risk while lowering operational costs?
Risk Detect, a PwC Product, helps you get to key data points quickly and efficiently. From transactions, to loan document compliance, reviewing data to find the answer to a complex problem can be burdensome. This product does the heavy lifting for you. Target high-risk activities in rapidly changing markets and better allocate your resources accordingly through the application of advanced analytic algorithms and machine learning.
Proactive risk identification
Whether fighting fraud, or cracking down on bribery and corruption, the keys to a successful transaction monitoring program are; proactive monitoring (including alerts, taking you to the source of the problem), and action frameworks that enable alerts to be managed from identification through remediation.
Reduce stare and compare reviews
Reduce the time-consuming and costly aspects of compliance testing by automating the document review process in a single platform. Check your entire portfolio in a fraction of the time it would take to manually test a smaller set.
Effortlessly integrate diverse data streams
Collect data from popular cloud applications and sort your disparate data, pulling myriad data sources into one stream for pattern recognition that is presented in compelling visualizations.

Tested AI
We leverage advanced algorithms and AI, coupled with years of industry experience to help detect risks faster and with greater accuracy.

The Risk Detect difference
Rapid Deployment
Risk Detect connects data, systems and processes to form a single source of truth. It's built to get off the shelf and into action quickly.

Tailored Analytics
Control the focus of your analyses to one or multiple risk areas. Gain a total personalized view of what's necessary to help stay on top of your risk.

How does Risk Detect identify, assess and respond to risk?

Automate data ingestion and data enrichment
Use our data connectors to automate data ingestion from disparate sources such as ERP systems, payment hubs, custom-built applications, and third-party compliance technologies into a single system for a more holistic view of risk.
Leverage out-of-the-box risk indicators
Accelerate your team's ability to uncover potentially inappropriate behavior with our established risk indicator library, a collection of indicators developed from decades of experience and our understanding of industry trends and regulatory expectations.
Develop and deploy business rules
Develop customized business rules, use our library, or leverage our proprietary AI-driven Rule Extractor to develop rules that are optimized based on your data.

Create and optimize smarter models with ease
Build powerful machine learning and AI models with ease to help identify issues that are not visible to the human eye. Leverage our model optimizer to tune your analytics and enable continual enhancement. Import or export models for use in other channels and investments.
Generate alerts and investigate quickly
Empower your team to explore transaction data for further review. Use the case management and workflow capabilities to create a central virtual team room and to create a defensible record of actions.
Use the data to tell the story
Get powerful actionable insights on the performance of your risk management program and operations. Share reports on your overall risk program with key decision-makers.

We started with post-deal reviews and are now proactively identifying high-risk deals before entering into them to help prevent non-compliance before it happens.
Compliance Officer, Fortune 100 Technology Company
© 2022 PwC. All rights reserved. PwC refers to the US member firm or one of its subsidiaries or affiliates, and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. This content is for general information purposes only, and should not be used as a substitute for consultation with professional advisors.

Contact
Justin Offen Principal, Cybersecurity, Privacy & Forensics PwC US justin.m.offen@pwc.com
Brian Castelli Principal, Cybersecurity, Privacy & Forensics PwC US brian.castelli@pwc.com
Karen Sgoutas Director, Cybersecurity, Privacy & Forensics PwC US karen.sgoutas@pwc.com
Todd Swint Director, Cybersecurity, Privacy & Forensics PwC US todd.swint@pwc.com

