jupiterone.com
Cyber Asset Management Platform
Cyber asset visibility and context is the key to a strong cybersecurity strategy. You need to gain visibility into your entire cyber asset inventory before tackling real security issues. With our data-driven graph-based approach, you can collect, search and connect your cyber assets and environment within minutes.

Visibility Across All Cyber Assets
Build an accurate inventory of cyber assets and discover the relationships
across your cyber asset universe.

Graph-Based Risk Analysis
Graph-based analysis provides rich context via connections across cyber assets providing
scalability and depth of analysis.

Context-Driven Security
Extensible and automated security based on continuously up-to-date cyber asset context. Connect your assets in deep and meaningful ways.

How It Works
1 Connect your infrastructure and security tooling to JupiterOne one time for continuous governance.
2 Immediately gain complete visibility into your entire cyber asset inventory.
3 JupiterOne connects and visualizes the relationships across all your cyber assets.
4 Modern visibility lets you see all the potential risks across your cyber asset universe.
5 Take immediate or automated action on vulnerabilities, misconfigurations, or risks that don't align with your compliance or security policies.

Capabilities
Cyber Asset Inventory and Management Full inventory of your entire cyber asset universe. Interactive graph view of your digital universe; ability to map the relationships between all your cyber assets.
Understand Risks Across Cyber Assets From vulnerability to compliance - gain in depth knowledge into your cyber asset universe. Agent-less data collection and graph-based relationship analysis allows you to ask questions to understand potential risks or compliance drift and get targeted guidance so you can close the gap.
Centralized Security Operations & Compliance JupiterOne optimizes team resources and time spent on finding vulnerabilities, performing reviews, gathering evidence, reporting, and real-time remediation so you can meaningfully reduce risk.
Context-Driven Cloud Management Orchestrate all assets that operate in a cloud: the users and access control, data, applications, and services.
Automated and Continuous Governance Move beyond compliance with continuous governance - where you set the policies and we enforce them to keep your business secure.

