Seize the BreachTM
Eliminate your blindspots and respond to threats faster and more accurately with Exabeam.

Exabeam can help you detect, investigate, and respond more quickly and accurately to threats to Seize the BreachTM and mitigate damage.

About Exabeam Products
Capabilities

Analytics.
Automation.
Outcomes.
Exabeam is a global cybersecurity leader that adds intelligence to every IT and security stack. The leader in Next-gen SIEM and XDR, Exabeam is reinventing the way security teams use analytics and automation to solve Threat Detection, Investigation, and Response (TDIR), from common security threats to the most critical that are difficult to identify.
Exabeam offers a comprehensive cloud-delivered solution that leverages machine learning and automation using a prescriptive, outcomes-based approach to TDIR. We design and build products to help security teams detect external threats, compromised users and malicious adversaries, minimize false positives, and best protect their organizations.
For more information, visit www.exabeam.com

Exabeam Fusion XDR
Efficiently detect, investigate, and respond to threats without disrupting your existing security stack.
Exabeam Fusion SIEM
Fuse SIEM and open XDR into a modern SecOps solution.

Alert Triage
Exabeam Alert Triage enables analysts to quickly and confidently dismiss or escalate security alerts at scale.

Log Management
Exabeam Data Lake provides a highly scalable data lake for lightning-fast log storage and search.

Behavioral Analytics
Together, Exabeam Advanced Analytics and Exabeam Entity Analytics form a UEBA solution that leverages behavioral analytics for modern threat detection and investigation.

Response Automation
Security orchestration, automation and response (SOAR) to make your incident response team more productive.

Case Management
Exabeam Case Manager provides a security-specific workspace to manage and collaborate on incident resolution.

Threat Hunting
Exabeam Threat Hunter leverages a point-and-click search for behavioral threat hunting.

Cloud Connectors
Exabeam Cloud Connectors provide pre-built, reliable log collection and response orchestration for over 40 cloud services.

Threat Intelligence
Exabeam Threat Intelligence Service provides real-time insight into malicious hosts and other indicators of compromise.

Automation Use Cases

Comprehensive Threat Detection, Investigation and Response (TDIR) for Successful Outcomes

Exabeam automates manual and repetitive tasks
Based on a Ponemon research study, SOC teams spend 12% of their time on detection, 36% on triage, 26% on investigation, and 26% on response.
Yet most cybersecurity vendors provide security analytics that only automates the Detection and Response parts of the workflow.
Exabeam automates everything that the SOC needs from detection to triage to investigation and response.
· Automation helps improve security teams' productivity at every phase of their workflow, not just response.
· Automation assists with detection, triage, and investigation where analysts spend 74% of their time.
· With automation, even junior analysts can make decisions. Advanced hunters can still query raw logs.

Use case-based content for successful outcomes
Industry analysts such as Gartner and Forrester have recognized the need for pre-packaged content as part of a successful security strategy.
Exabeam offers:
· Pre-packaged use case coverage that helps organizations solve specific problems by providing visibility, detection models, investigation checklists, and response playbooks.
· Use case content and features for each stage of the analyst workflow, not just detection.
· Clear guidance on the data sources needed for security teams to protect against external and internal threats.

SOC STEPS

TIME SPENT

Collection

EXABEAM AUTOMATION SOLUTION
Cloud Connectors

VALUE
· Predefined data sources
· 500+ integrations
· Cloud connectors

Detection

12%

User and Entity Behavior Analytics (UEBA)

· Behaviorbased threat detection
· Watchlists
· MITRE mapping

Triage

36% Alert Prioritization

· Dynamic alert prioritization
· Context gathering and enrichment
· Auto case creation

26%
Investigation

Automated Incident Timeline Creation

· Pre-built incident timelines for all entities
· Automated Q&A

Response

26%

Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response (SOAR)

· Turnkey playbooks
· Custom incident types
· Case management with incident checklists

Improve SecOps with the Exabeam Security Operations Platform

Modular and cloud-delivered, to augment existing security tools or update your SIEM.
The Exabeam Security Operations Platform is modular and delivered as a cloud solution or through a managed security service provider (MSSP). It can be used to augment your existing security tools, or you can deploy it to replace your SIEM. Security teams migrating to Exabeam can do so all at once, or in phases.

Ingest

Collect
Data Lake
Cloud Connectors
Cloud Archive

Detect, Triage and Investigate
Advanced Analytics
Entity Analytics
Threat Hunter
Alert Triage

Respond
Incident Responder
Case Manager

Exabeam Security Operations Platform Fusion XDR and Fusion SIEM

Manage

Why Exabeam
Successfully used by customers across the globe.

Directly mapping common security use cases to response workflows is critical for SecOps success."
Marc Crudgington
CISO, SVP Information Security

We were able to quickly turn on the `out of the box' use cases and integrate with our systems and processes, improving our detect and response capabilities."
Jennifer Shields
VP of Information Technology

Technologically advanced companies like Exabeam allow us to better understand the truly anomalous user behavior that matters to our business. The value is in being able to maximize our efficiency at analyzing events that could pose a threat to our clients' businesses."
Jorge Castañeda
Corporate General Manager

Our Exabeam partnership helped to make our team more efficient and has been a core building block within our cybersecurity program."
Colin Anderson
Chief Information Security Officer

Analysts & Recognition

Recognized for leadership and innovation

2021 Gartner® Magic QuadrantTM: Leader
Our vision to build a cloud platform that improves threat detection, incident investigation, and response for security ops and insider threat teams is making a real-world impact. Gartner agreed and named Exabeam a Leader in the 2021 Magic Quadrant for SIEM.

2020 Forrester Wave for Security Analytics Platforms: Leader

Exabeam was named a leader based on a 27-criterion evaluation for 11 of the most significant security analytics platform providers. "Exabeam excels on user experience," according to the report. "Midmarket companies and enterprises seeking a modular yet integrated Security Analytics platform with a focus on user behavior should consider Exabeam.

WAVE LEADER 2020
Security Analytics Platforms

2021 Gartner Peer InsightsTM: Customers' Choice for SIEM
The Gartner Peer Insights Customers' Choice distinction is based on feedback and ratings from end-user professionals who have experience purchasing, implementing, and/or using Exabeam Fusion SIEM.

For more information, visit www.exabeam.com

Select Awards & Recognition

Forrester TEI Study
Exabeam commissioned Forrester Consulting to perform a Total Economic Impact (TEI) study on the potential financial impact of deploying Exabeam Fusion SIEM. Based on their findings, a typical customer could see:
ROI
245%
Benefits PV
$3.73M
NPV
$2.65M
Payback
<6 months
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's Research & Advisory organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. GARTNER and MAGIC QUADRANT are trademarks and service marks of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates and are used herein with permission. All rights reserved.

BEST PLACES TO WORK 2021

