the digital identity company

Making an impact on healthcare

8,332,983 managed identities with Imprivata Identity Governance

77,689
EPCS and other multifactor authentication transactions per day
with Imprivata Confirm ID

11,395,489
single sign-ons to applications per day with Imprivata OneSign

17,995,546
authentications per day into a variety of devices with the Imprivata access
management solutions

The imperative to manage digital identity
The Imprivata digital identity framework for healthcare is a comprehensive planning guide to help organizations holistically manage and secure digital identities across today's heterogeneous, distributed healthcare IT implementations. By following the framework, organizations can mitigate security risks, reduce regulatory compliance burdens, and streamline provider and IT workflows throughout the extended digital healthcare ecosystem. A companion maturity assessment tool makes it easy to evaluate requirements, formulate plans, measure progress, and enable continuous improvement. And optional Imprivata professional services provide expert project readiness, planning, and implementation advice throughout the journey.
The Imprivata digital identity framework is composed of four foundational functional categories: · Governance and administration for enforcing and monitoring compliance, and mitigating risk · Identity management for provisioning users and devices throughout their lifecycle · Authorization for managing user roles and privileges · Authentication and access for validating users and controlling access to applications and systems
Imprivata digital identity solutions are designed from the ground up to address the fundamental governance and administration, identity management, authorization, and access and authentication functions laid out in the Imprivata framework.

Imprivata digital identity framework for healthcare
Imprivata Identity Governance Imprivata Confirm ID Imprivata Mobile Imprivata PatientSecure Imprivata OneSign Imprivata FairWarning Imprivata Xton Privileged Access Management More than two products Microsoft

Identity governance

Imprivata identity governance solutions are purpose-built to meet the unique, demanding, and constantly changing security, compliance, and workflow challenges of the modern healthcare enterprise. With Imprivata identity governance solutions, healthcare organizations can strike the necessary, but often elusive balance between security and clinical workflow efficiency across the evolving healthcare technology landscape.

Provisioning

Access

End-to-end identity management enables staff to quickly provision, update, and deactivate user access as needed. The Imprivata identity governance solution offers precise role-based access controls and automated provisioning and de-provisioning.
The solution provides all the user and behavioral data and workflow automation needed to support governance, risk management, and compliance initiatives.
Why it matters
· IT teams need to provision users for access into appropriate applications
· Manually setting user accounts can be complex and error-prone
· Security teams want users to have right level of access while assuring compliance

Imprivata enables seamless access into shared mobile devices and shared medical devices with a simple tap of a badge. That badge can also enable fast user switching on devices, desktops, and kiosk workstations, reducing login times while protecting patient data.
Secure walkaway expands beyond initial access with continued, proximity- based authentication, anchored in trusted digital identity. Users walk away from their workstation and the system locks automatically. As they return, their workstations unlock.
Why it matters · Users need anytime, anywhere access on any device
· Over-reliance on usernames and passwords
· Emerging devices require different workflows

" With Imprivata identity governance solutions, we've seen huge time savings due to the reduction of manual processes, and we've ensured that clinicians receive fast and secure access to " applications and systems. Shawn McCrum Manager IAM Northern Light Health

Risk analytics and intelligence
Imprivata risk analytics and intelligence solutions help healthcare organizations protect their most important data. The solutions use AI and ML to provide insights into risky and abnormal behavior, to identify unauthorized PHI access and modification, and to prevent drug diversion and abuse.

Patient privacy intelligence
Imprivata's risk analytics and intelligence solutions use AI, ML, and behavioral analytics to detect eavesdropping, inappropriate record modification, data exfiltration, and other unusual activity symptomatic of PHI loss and abuse.
The solutions let healthcare organizations proactively monitor and manage medication prescribing and dispensing technologies to prevent controlled substance theft and abuse, and avoid drug waste.
Why it matters · PHI breaches can erode patient trust and lead to
costly fines and lawsuits
· Security teams must efficiently detect snooping, record modification, and other anomalous behavior
· IT teams must demonstrate compliance with HIPAA and other data privacy mandates

Drug diversion intelligence
Healthcare organizations must prevent drug theft and abuse and ensure compliance with DEA controlled substance regulations and other laws
Why it matters · Drug diversion has reached epidemic levels
· Relying on manual processes to monitor drug inventories and disbursement is resource-intensive and ineffective

Cloud solutions intelligence
Organizations can also monitor and track access to SaaS solutions like Microsoft 365 and Salesforce. The solutions translate raw metadata into meaningful and actionable insights, helping organizations enhance security, reduce risk, and improve compliance
Why it matters · Healthcare organizations are adopting SaaS solutions
to simplify IT operations and improve agility
· Security teams must protect access to cloud-based applications and cloud-resident data
· Healthcare organizations must comply with HIPAA and other privacy regulations as they migrate apps to the cloud

" Selecting Imprivata for EPCS compliance and multifactor authentication was a no-brainer for us. Expanding our investment meant we were growing an existing relationship with a strategic partner " committed to our success. Dr. Spencer Erman CMIO Hartford Healthcare

Authentication and access management

Imprivata authentication and access management solutions are purpose-built to meet the unique, demanding, and constantly changing security, compliance, and workflow challenges of the modern healthcare enterprise. With Imprivata, healthcare organizations can strike the necessary, but often elusive, balance between security and clinical workflow efficiency across the evolving healthcare technology landscape.

Single sign-on

Multifactor authentication

Imprivata understands digital identity and its unique requirements within healthcare. Users can access their devices with a simple badge tap, and in that same process, automatically sign-on to their desktop and cloud applications.
A strategic collaboration with Microsoft takes this a step further, enabling access to Microsoft Azure's catalog of over 2,000 cloud apps, supporting the need for clinicians and non- clinicians, particularly with the growing adoption of cloud apps.
Why it matters
· Widespread adoption of virtual desktops and mobile devices
· IT has a growing set of applications to support
· Increased adoption of cloud and mobile applications

Imprivata provides innovative, convenient authentication methods, including a push token, fingerprint biometrics, and Hands Free Authentication for various workflows, including remote access and electronic prescriptions for controlled substances (EPCS).
Imprivata provides the only solution in healthcare that protects digital identities and enables end-to-end compliance. This includes multifactor authentication in a way that is non-disruptive for clinicians.
Why it matters
· The vast majority of data breaches involve weak or stolen passwords
· Phishing and other social engineering attacks are highly successful in stealing credentials
· Multifactor authentication is a requirement for electronic prescriptions for controlled substances (EPCS)

Compliance, audit, and risk reporting
Gain full visibility into access and identity with a governance, risk, and compliance dashboard. Enable security and IT teams to review full historical audit logs, user access reports, and entitlement records.
Establish greater, and more granular control to enforce security policies.
Why it matters · Many healthcare organizations lack full visibility into
PHI access activity and user entitlements
· Compliance violations can result in stiff fines and legal payouts
· Security and IT teams need better tools to demonstrate compliance and support audits

" Imprivata offers convenient authentication options, which makes additional layers of security almost invisible to users. This is essential to balancing security with " workflow efficiency. Gaylon Stockman Former CISO Franciscan Missionaries of Our Lady Health System

Mobile IAM and provisioning
Imprivata mobile IAM and provisioning solutions help healthcare organizations streamline and secure mobile technology initiatives. The solutions deliver automated mobile device provisioning, secure device checkout, and fast, secure user access, helping organizations unlock the full potential of mobile technology.

Mobile identity & access management Mobile device provisioning

Imprivata mobile solutions enable fast, secure access to shared clinical mobile devices and applications. Clinicians access shared devices with the simple tap of a proximity badge, and single sign-on (SSO) to all their applications.
Why it matters
· Healthcare organizations use shared mobile devices to optimize workflows and improve care
· Clinicians need fast, convenient access to mobile devices and applications1
· IT organizations must eliminate security vulnerabilities and safeguard PHI without impairing user experience or satisfaction

Imprivata iOS mobile solutions eliminate manually intensive, time-consuming provisioning and management tasks.
Inventory Access visibility makes it easy for IT teams to trace mobile assets and track misplaced devices.
Why it matters · Many organizations rely on manual processes to
configure and manage mobile devices
· Staff squander valuable time and effort provisioning, re-provisioning, and updating devices
· Locating lost or stolen devices is a challenge

Patient safety and experience
While all Imprivata digital identity solutions are designed for one purpose -- to ensure providers are always focused on the safe, secure delivery of patient care -- some put patient safety and experience at the core. Imprivata positive patient identification solutions improve patient satisfaction and safety by streamlining patient interactions and protecting data privacy, security, and integrity.
Patient identification
Imprivata offers the leading positive patient identification platform that improves patient safety and financial outcomes through biometric identification, medical record cleanup, improved patient matching, and workflow optimization.
Why it matters · Legacy patient identification processes can result
in errors
· Up to 10% of patients are misidentified during health record searches 1
· 9% of analyzed misidentification events led to harm ²
1. Source: Wall Street Journal Healthcare Report, Should Every Patient Have a Unique ID Number for All Medical Records?, July 2012. Valenstein, P. N., Raab, S. S. & Walsh, M. K. Identification errors involving clinical laboratories: a College of American Pathologists Q-Probes study of patient and specimen identification errors at 120 institutions. Arch. Pathol. Lab. Med. 130, 1106­1113 (2006).
2. Source: Ibid.

Founded:
2002
Customers:
2,900+
healthcare customers
45
countries
Managed identities:
8 million
Patents:
53

Commitment to customer success

Imprivata is dedicated to providing a signature customer experience. Our customers thrive, grow, and succeed throughout their adoption lifecycle thanks to proven methodologies, broad professional services, and excellent customer support. From workflow analysis and implementations to platform upgrades and role-specific training, we always place our customers first.

Our customers include some of the world's most prestigious healthcare organizations, ranging from large Accountable Care Organizations and National Health Trusts, to small ambulatory care facilities and walk-in clinics. More than 8 million users at over 2,900 healthcare organizations in 45 countries rely on our solutions to improve balancing strong security with user convenience.

Imprivata partners
We actively maintain and expand a strategic partnership ecosystem that delivers multiple integrated services.

Authentication and clinical access
Allscripts, Cerner, ChipSoft, CISTEC, Dedalus, Epic, Evident, Forward Advantage, InterSystems, MEDHOST, MEDITECH, Modeus, NextGen, WellSky
Cloud application and desktop delivery
10ZiG, Citrix, Dell, Google, HP, IGEL, Lenovo, Microsoft, Plus Technologies, Praim, Process Fusion, Stratodesk, Teradici, Vasion, VMware
Patient identification and patient privacy
CTS, KIOSK, Medcurity, PatientWorks, RadarFirst, QuadraMed, Salesforce, Trinisys, Unqork, Vecna, Verato

Connected devices and medical IoT
Advantech, Alphatron Medical, Capsa Healthcare, Capsule, CAREDirect, Cybernet, Ergotron, Getac, Hillrom, Howard Medical, ICU Medical, LG, Masimo, Mindray, Philips, seca
Clinical mobility
Ascom, BEST, Datalogic, DrFirst, Dryrain, Halo Health, Honeywell, IQ Messenger, Medanets, Mobile Heartbeat, MobileIron, Mobitrace, Newland, Samsung, SCC Soft Computer, SMG3, Spectralink, Spok, TigerConnect, Vocera, Zebra, Zello

the digital identity company
Imprivata, the digital identity company for healthcare, provides identity, authentication, and access management solutions that are purpose-built to solve healthcare's unique workflow, security, and compliance challenges.

For further information please contact us at 1 781 674 2700 or visit us online at www.imprivata.com
Copyright © 2021 Imprivata, Inc. All rights reserved. Imprivata and Confirm ID, Identity Governance, and OneSign are registered trademarks of Imprivata, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

