BitSight for Security
Performance Management
AN OUTCOME-DRIVEN APPROACH TO BETTER SECURITY
Take a risk-based, outcome-driven approach to assessing and managing the performance of your cybersecurity program. Continuously monitor and evaluate your organization's current security state, analyze how your performance ranks against industry peers, and create improvement plans to reduce cyber risk.
ACHIEVE CONTINUOUS VISIBILITY INTO YOUR DIGITAL ECOSYSTEM
Your organization is being held increasingly accountable for its security practices, outcomes, and failures. Building defenses and reacting to threats are no longer enough. You need to quantify the impact and effectiveness of your security investments -- and identify gaps in performance. You also need to set goals and make informed, data-driven decisions on how to better manage your resources.
Security Performance Management (SPM) provides tools for tracking and improving your security program performance over time. Through broad measurement, continuous monitoring, and detailed planning and forecasting, you can:
· Achieve continuous visibility into your expanding digital footprint
· Streamline operations for reducing cyber risk · Drive accountability for security outcomes
throughout your organization · Ensure that investments in security controls
are efficient and effective

KEY BENEFITS
Gain visibility into cyber risk across all digital assets ­ on-premises, in the cloud, across geographies and subsidiaries, and remote/home offices
Identify gaps in your cybersecurity program through continuous monitoring
Better prioritize remediation efforts and cyber initiatives based on risk
Quantify the impact and effectiveness of security investments
Unite teams around a common language
Make informed decisions to better manage the effectiveness of security tools, technologies, and people
Bring continuous improvements in cyber health

www.bitsight.com sales@bitsight.com BitSight · 111 Huntington Ave · Suite 2010 · Boston, MA 02140

KEY CAPABILITIES
CONTINUOUSLY ASSESS YOUR CYBERSECURITY POSTURE AND IDENTIFY AREAS OF UNKNOWN RISK
Gain actionable insight into the performance of your current security program. Continuously monitor for and identify gaps in cybersecurity controls, such as misconfigurations, vulnerabilities, unpatched systems, and more across your ecosystem -- in the cloud; on-premise; and across geographies, subsidiaries, and your remote workforce.
PRIORITIZE REMEDIATION BASED ON AREAS THAT POSE DISPROPORTIONATE RISK Obtain much-needed context into security performance. Rank areas of critical or disproportionate risk across your digital ecosystem with BitSight Security Ratings, which provide data-driven, dynamic measurements of cybersecurity performance.
CREATE INFORMED IMPROVEMENT PLANS Assess your current security performance and develop a plan of action to remediate any vulnerabilities. Set program goals, track progress, and report on improvement over time.
IMPROVE COLLABORATION AND ACCOUNTABILITY AMONG TEAMS
Unite your entire organization around a common language and set of independent, objective KPIs for quantifying security performance.
Security Operations

QUICKLY DISCOVER RISK ON REMOTE NETWORKS Gain visibility into cyber risk associated with the expanded attack surface created by unmonitored and insecure home and remote offices.
BENCHMARK PERFORMANCE Compare your cybersecurity posture to that of similar organizations. Uncover gaps in your program based on a comparison of risk vectors within your peer group, and see how others prioritize their cybersecurity efforts.
MAKE SECURITY PERFORMANCE UNDERSTANDABLE AND ACCESSIBLE TO EXECUTIVES Have data-driven business conversations about security that facilitate effective communication across the organization. Quickly pull meaningful metrics that are easily understood by key stakeholders to determine if you are meeting security performance standards.
ALLOCATE SECURITY RESOURCES EFFICIENTLY Make data-driven decisions on how to prioritize resources and focus remediation efforts on the areas that can have the biggest impact.
SPM & Strategy

Digital Footprint

Exposure Assessment

Reputation Management

Remediation Management

Process Review & Improvement

Performance Mangement & Monitoring

Program Management
& Planning

Board Reporting

www.bitsight.com sales@bitsight.com BitSight · 111 Huntington Ave · Suite 2010 · Boston, MA 02140

GET STARTED WITH BITSIGHT FOR SECURITY PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
OPTIONS FOR EVERY STAGE OF MATURITY
SPM provides an out-of-the-box solution to easily measure the effectiveness of your growing security program. Using powerful data and analytics, you can identify necessary improvements -- and determine where to focus security resources across decentralized ecosystems or distributed teams. The following options are available:
VISIBILITY LITE:
Continuous visibility into your organization's security posture for issue identification and prioritization, forensics for remediation, and basic reporting capabilities. Modules included: Ratings Monitoring, Remediation Forensics, Work From Home - Remote Office
VISIBILITY PACKAGE:
Broad and continuous visibility into your organization's digital footprint to better manage digital assets, identify areas of unknown risk, prioritize remediation, and get started implementing a security performance program with basic reporting capabilities. Modules included: Ratings Monitoring, Remediation Forensics, Work From Home - Remote Office, Attack Surface Analytics
MANAGEMENT PACKAGE:
Includes everything in the Visibility Package plus advanced analytics and reporting capabilities. Leverage BitSight performance analytics to run peer and competitive analysis, customer industry analysis, program gap analysis, and root cause analysis to inform improvement planning and resource allocation. Modules included: Ratings Monitoring, Remediation Forensics, Work From Home - Remote Office, Attack Surface Analytics, Peer Analytics
STRATEGY PACKAGE:
For security and risk leaders seeking to use data and analytics to drive more informed security program decisions. Includes everything from the Visibility and Management Packages plus risk modeling and scenario analysis capabilities for targeted goal setting and performance tracking over time. Modules included: Ratings Monitoring, Remediation Forensics, Work From Home - Remote Office, Attack Surface Analytics, Peer Analytics, Forecasting

TRANSFORM HOW YOU EVALUATE CYBER
RISK AND SECURITY PERFORMANCE
BitSight for Security Performance Management provides broad visibility into your digital assets -- across all devices and endpoints, on-premise or in the cloud -- on a continuous basis.
Visibility into your organization's digital risk will help your team assess its cybersecurity posture, identify areas of potential risk, and lay the foundation for an effective security program.
ABOUT BITSIGHT
BitSight transforms how companies manage information security risk with objective, verifiable and actionable Security Ratings. Founded in 2011, the company built its Security Ratings Platform to continuously analyze vast amounts of data on security issues. 7 of the top 10 largest cyber insurers, 20 percent of Fortune 500 companies, and 4 of the top 5 investment banks rely on BitSight to manage cyber risks.

www.bitsight.com sales@bitsight.com BitSight · 111 Huntington Ave · Suite 2010 · Boston, MA 02140

