Introducing The Enterprise Browser:
Delivering control, visibility, and governance over data and applications via the browser.
WHITE PAPER FEBRUARY 20222

February 2022

Introducing The Enterprise Browser: Delivering control, visibility, and governance over data and applications via the browser.

Executive Summary

It's time to examine the lack of control enterprises have on web browsers

The browser has become the most commonly

used application By Bradon Rogers
Head of Customer Success, Island Technology

in

the

enterprise.

The consumer browser was never designed to be an enterprise application, causing organizations to overcompensate with a complex and expensive security stack that is increasingly unreasonable to manage and incredibly frustrating to work with for users and security teams alike. Island is the world's first Enterprise Browser that naturally embeds the core needs of the enterprise into the smooth, familiar, Chromium-based browser experience.
Now, organizations have complete control over the last mile, with the ability to govern and audit all browser behavior, customize the browser to support its unique identity, workflows, and needs, and feed all browser data to the rest of the enterprise, radically improving the effectiveness of their entire infrastructure. This approach can fill in the missing puzzle pieces of a zero-trust initiative ensuring a natural fit for an

evolving workforce and web-based applications that can live anywhere. Securing work more effectively without compromising on the smooth, enjoyable browser experience users expect.
With The Enterprise Browser, security extends everywhere it's needed without getting in the way of work. Which means SaaS and internal web apps no longer leak data to the end point, BYOD and contract workers just log in and get to work without putting data at risk, user privileges are now safe from misconfiguration or tampering, consumer or risky applications are now safely permitted inside the workplace, and much more.
It's work as it should be - fluid, frictionless, and fundamentally secure.

2

Introduction
Consider the following question: Which applications do enterprises use most?
It's time to examine the lack of control enterprises have on web browsers

By BDraedspointeRsougcehrs

You might be thinking Microsoft Office.

HeadunoivfeCrsuasltoamdoeprtiSounccess, IMslaaynbdeTeScahlneoslfoogrcye. These are quite

by enterprises everywhere, the browser isn't even an enterprise application. It was built to serve consumers,

frequently used. But there's another that's used far more often by the greatest number of enterprises, and that is the browser. In the age of anywhere, the browser is where all our employees, apps, and data meet. And it's where virtually all our work happens.

advertisers, and content providers.

Yet, despite such universal adoption by enterprises everywhere, the browser isn't

even an enterprise application. It was built

to serve consumers, advertisers, and

content providers. Designed to track user

data, deliver hyper-targeted ads, and

accelerate content search and discovery.

Optimized for the best possible user

experience - fast rendering, powerful

extensibility, and universal compatibility.

And because it has served the user so well,

we brought the consumer browser to work

as well.

But since the browser was never intended for the enterprise, it lacks the core elements any enterprise needs to work safely and productively. Basic governance, visibility and security - they're simply not there. Our security teams are essentially locked out of the one application our organization depends on most.

Because the browser doesn't cooperate with the enterprise, we're given no choice but to surround it with gateways, CASBs,

DLP solutions, firewalls - an endless array of security solutions. And in the process, our stack becomes too complex, expensive, and fragile to maintain. We're forced to make painful tradeoffs that leave our organization too exposed or work too confined.
And we're still blind to what's actually happening in the browser - unprepared to protect the critical resources our organizations hold dear. And ironically, the reason we chose the browser in the first place - it's smooth end user experience and simple manageability - is replaced by frustration, disruption, and delays to work itself. Pain shared by both users and security teams alike.
It's not the browser's fault. It was never designed to serve the enterprise.
Well, what if it was?
Imagine if instead of the enterprise having to operate on the browser, the browser was fully integrated into the enterprise. Imagine if all the core elements your organization needed to work securely, were built into the same browser experience you're using right now.

3

Introducing Island.

The Enterprise Browser.

It's time to examine the lack of control enterprises have on web browsers

So often, enforcing By BnraewdosneRcuorgiteyrstools HeadlikoefsCaunsdtboomxeesr,Success,

The Enterprise Browser is the workplace Island Technology where work is fluid

ideal enterprise while remaining

agents, or virtual desktops comes at

fundamentally secure.

the cost of a

convenient end-user

experience.

With the core needs of the enterprise

completely avoiding the complexities of

naturally embedded in the browser itself,

decrypting and inspecting SSL traffic in

Island gives organizations complete control, the network to perform these actions.

visibility, and governance over the one

And because it's a browser, encrypted

place where nearly all their work happens, traffic is natively terminated to deliver a

while delivering the same smooth

natural experience with complete visibility.

Chromium-based browser experience

users expect.

Island can sit alongside your existing

browser for individual critical applications

And with a browser that actually

and activities that require maximum

cooperates with the enterprise, everything control, governance, or visibility. Or it can

around it gets smarter, simpler, and easier. serve as your primary browser for all work

Files are now scanned by data-loss

activity. And with the Enterprise Browser,

prevention, malware, and other security

work is suddenly much simpler yet

tools before being downloaded, uploaded, completely secure at the same time,

or viewed. Browser activity is fed directly

across a wide range of enterprise

into your SIEM or other analytics platforms, scenarios such as BYOD, contractor

access, new web applications, privileged

user needs, legacy application access,

and more.

4

The Foundation: Chromium

Securing the Last Mile

The element that made the browser

At the heart of any enterprise application is

such an attractive work application in

the means to granularly control, govern,

the first place was its user experience.

and secure the work being done on it and

Its smooth, fast rendering, an ecosystem

the data it contains. Yet, when it comes to

of extensions , and universal

consumer browsers, the moment our data

It's time to examinecotmhpeatilbailictykaroefjucsot snotmreoolfethneterprises hreaavcheesotnhewweinbdobwroofwthseebrroswser itself, it

reasons why it's been the most widely

is essentially ungoverned by any of the

By Bradon Rogers

adopted application on earth. But when

Head of Customer Success, IsitlacnodmTeecshtnoosloegcyurity solutions, adoption

traditional controls we depend on to secure our critical information.

becomes a serious challenge. So often,

enforcing new security tools like

Despite our efforts to secure the

sandboxes, agents, or virtual desktops

applications themselves and

comes at the cost of a convenient end-

the networks they travel on, it's this "last

user experience. And in more than a few

mile" - the browser window itself - where

cases, users are unwilling to embrace

protection is out of the enterprise's hands.

those solutions for day-to-day work.

Once data arrives there, users can do what

they please, creating a nightmare for the

By controlling what

We understood that, for the Enterprise

enterprise. This leaves organizations at the

the browser presents to end users, Island becomes the most powerful ally in ensuring sensitive data is only seen by the right users and used in the right way.

Browser to be implemented and actually adopted, it cannot come at the price of the experience. That's why we built The Enterprise Browser using the opensource Chromium project - the same technology that powers the most widely adopted consumer browsers like Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge. Chromium delivers the core services of user experience, rendering, JavaScript

mercy of their user population, praying they use corporate web applications and their underlying data properly. Yet, this uncomfortable reality raises all sorts of difficult questions for security teams, such as:
 What's stopping a user from copying and pasting sensitive data onto a personal application?

interpretation, codecs, extensions, and networking for that stable, familiar experience users expect. Which means

 What's stopping a user from printing, screen capturing, or taking a photo of critical information on their screen?

users will have an experience identical to the browser they use today -- completely removing the struggle of adopting a new security security solution for day to day work.

 How do we give access to a corporate application while preventing that same user from seeing sensitive data on that same app?

5

 How do we stop one kind of user from downloading or uploading data to or from

 Masking sensitive on-screen data without any backend database changes

critical apps without it impacting other users?
 How do we empower the use of personal devices while at the same time protecting critical resources?

 Watermarking to prevent phone or camera screen capture
These are just some of the countless

examples of how the Island Enterprise

It's time to examineHwtohhweneduoslwaerecseaknresounr'tfeocansoaanfmetaenrxaopgelerdeiennncetetweeorvrepknrises
or VPN?
By Bradon Rogers
HeadBuotfwCiuthstIoslmanedr,Success, UIslnatnildnToewc,htnhoolosgeyprotecting the

Bhroawvseerokenepwsethbe dbartoa winssideercsritical
application resources comprehensively secure in ways that simply weren't possible until now.

enterprises can take ownership of the entire browser

organization were forced to either turn a blind eye to these questions or accept answers they weren't comfortable with. The

Auditing and Logging Browser Activity

experience like

inconvenient reality is, without seeing or

never before.

controlling what's happening in the browser, The typical enterprise today has a whole

there's very little that can be done.

toolbox of solutions dedicated to

All of this changes with The Enterprise Browser. With The Enterprise Browser, you have complete control over this last mile. Security teams can set deep, granular policies that govern how the browser behaves across every user, in every scenario, from the universal level down to the finest details of an application.

monitoring and logging user behavior and auditing possible problematic events tools such as web proxies, endpoint controls, data loss prevention technologies, identity providers, and cloud access security brokers, to name a few. But as long as work is done on a consumer browser, the best these tools can search for are clues.

By controlling what the browser presents to end users, Island becomes the most powerful ally in ensuring sensitive data is only seen by the right users and used in the right way.
For example, using Island's management console, you can set a policy allowing users to access only certain areas of a specific application depending on their role, device posture, network connection, and other parameters. And through this policy, you can control all types of interactions with the contents of the screen, such as:
 Copy/pasting within or between applications
 Screen captures of an application
 Printing application pages
 Saving screen content
 File download or upload within an application
 Adding multi-factor authentication to certain areas of an application

With no visibility into how users behave inside the browser, organizations are limited to gathering bits and pieces of information found beyond the browser, but never fully seeing the activity itself. This is quite simply due to the fact that the consumer browser was never designed with enterprise visibility in mind, and as such, does not cooperate with enterprise visibility tools in any meaningful way.
Now imagine what those tools can do if they were integrated into the browser instead of locked out of it. The Enterprise Browser gives you the ability to capture and log any interaction so you can monitor or investigate incidents in amazing detail. You can even have Island capture a screenshot of any given activity to have visual proof of more critical interactions.
And in addition to viewing all browser activity inside Island's management console, Island can also feed browser activity data into your existing SIEM or other analytics tools, giving your entire infrastructure a level of visibility that was simply not possible before.

6

Security teams now benefit from seeing

Enhancing Your Entire

the complete picture of all user activity and experience, and take more direct,

Infrastructure

more impactful action to keep the organization secure as a result.

For decades, we've had to operate our security stack without any cooperation

Island can also

Making the Browser Yours

It's fatecietmidvibteyrodwtaostaereintxoaminWeitthhthee lcaocnskumoefr cbroonwsterrobleeinngtteherprises

your existing SIEM

default environment for work until now, the

By BroardootnheRroagnearlsytics

option to customize the browsing

HeadtoooflCs,ugsitvoinmgeyroSuur ccess, eIsxlapnedriTeencchentoolomgyatch our organization's

entire infrastructure a level of visibility that was simply not

unique identity, workflows, or corporate needs was never a consideration.

whatsoever from the browser. In a sense, we've had to treat the browser like a `caged
ahnaimvael'. Boencawuseebofbourrofwunsdeamrsental
inability to secure the browser from within, we've asked our surrounding security tools to overcompensate by working harder than necessary to keep our organization safe.
Data Loss Protection solutions had to seal

possible before.

But with Island, enterprises can take ownership of the entire browser experience like never before. Customize the brand color, look and feel, even its tone of voice to match your unique organizational identity. Insert companyspecific workflows. Add custom browserbased robotic process automation (RPA) scripts that trigger over an application within the presentation layer of the

every exit from the browser - even the ones we needed. Tracing problematic incidents meant searching outside of the browser for clues in the network or on the endpoint. Malicious files were only scanned and detected once they left the browser, when it may already be too late. Our analytics platforms collected at-best an incomplete view of organizational activity.

browser to serve your unique needs, without requiring any changes to the actual application whatsoever.

But with the Enterprise Browser, your security stack is now integrated into the browser, instead of locked out. Your

For example, most financial institutions enforce multi-factor authentication to verify logins. But today, this is only done at the initial login, allowing users to view data or execute sensitive actions without any further limits or verifications. But in the Enterprise Browser, you can automatically

entire security stack can see all user activity and data first-hand, making them instantly smarter, while making their jobs simpler. Data Loss Protection makes smarter real-time decisions about which files should or shouldn't be downloaded before they even leave the browser.

insert MFA to your identity provider before executing a wire transfer or other sensitive actions.

Malware scanning is integrated into the browser, protecting the organization from ransomware or zero-day exploits at the

This is just one example of the countless ways you can extend the Enterprise Browser into the single most powerful method for securing your data across the organization.

very place they arrive. Firewalls identify and block security risks inside the browser itself, so they know exactly what threats to keep away from your network or endpoint. And analytics platforms

By introducing Browser-based RPA into the browser, Island enables you to customize your enterprise work experience with automations, company-defined workflows, and cross-application integrations - all

finally have a comprehensive view of everything happening inside the organization, enabling you to gain more accurate insight and make more sound decisions.

executed from inside the browser, over any

SaaS or internal web application, without

needing to touch the application itself.

7

February 2022

Introducing The Enterprise Browser: Delivering control, visibility, and governance over data and applications via the browser.

The Use Cases It's time to examine the lack of control enterprises have on web browsers
By Bradon Rogers
By sitting Head of Customer Success, Island Technology at the epicenter of enterprise work, The Enterprise Browser has the potential to fundamentally solve use cases of all kinds.

With the Enterprise Browser, you can set highly specific policies to govern which applications and data contractors can access from inside the browser itself.

Critical SaaS Applications
Aside from their limited built-in security controls, it's been virtually impossible to govern and secure the data accessed inside the SaaS and internal web apps core to enterprise work today. But with Island, organizations finally have a closed-loop system inside which granular policies can be implemented across all SaaS and internal web apps, ensuring the data inside them remains fundamentally secure, without relying on limited and complex network controls, disparate app-specific APIs or other limited solutions.
Bring Your Own Device (BYOD)
As the use of unmanaged devices for work has become mainstream, the risk of sensitive data leakage has become a constant challenge with no comprehensive solution. With the Enterprise Browser, organizations can finally offer this level of professional freedom without compromising on security whatsoever. With Island, users work freely on any device they choose while accessing critical data via a browser designed to keep it where it belongs.

Contractor Access
Enterprises regularly need to give outside contractors access to critical applications. But doing so means sharing highly sensitive applications and underlying data with users and unmanaged devices the organization can't see or control. With the Enterprise Browser, you can set highly specific policies to govern which applications and data contractors can access from inside the browser itself. You can also audit the usage of those apps and data to make sure all activity is as it should be. And most importantly, by provisioning their work from inside the browser, all the typical IT friction is gone - positioning contractors to work quickly and efficiently.

8

Privileged User Access

About Island

Most applications require accounts

with highly specific privileges for

organizational management needs.

Yet who is watching and governing

the use of these privileges? These accounts

become easily prone to misconfiguration or

By Bradon Rogers

sabotage. Island uniquely protects privileged

Head of Customer Success,uIsslearndacTceocuhnnotslobgyy adding deep forensic

logging on transactional events, forensic

screenshots of key actions and even multi-

factor authentication on top of any key

action, ensuring no unauthorized action

takes place - accidental or otherwise.

Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) Reduction

As organizations have raced to embrace work-from-home policies in response to the global COVID pandemic, many have turned to costly VDI solutions to provide browser access to critical applications for offpremises users. Island completely removes the overhead of VDI management and licensing costs for governing access to critical web applications for remote users, while providing a significantly more fluid and familiar experience users expect from a browser.

Island, the Enterprise Browser is the ideal enterprise workplace, where work flows freely while remaining fundamentally secure. With the core needs of the enterprise naturally embedded in the browser itself, Island gives organizations complete control, visibility, and governance over the last mile, while delivering the same smooth Chromiumbased browser experience users expect. Led by experienced leaders of the enterprise security and browser technology space and backed by the world's leading venture funds -Cyberstarts, Insight Partners, Sequoia and Stripes -- Island is redefining the future of work for some of the largest, most respected enterprises in the world.

Say `Yes' to Consumer or Risky Apps at Work
Organizations often forbid the use of consumer applications to avoid the transfer of corporate information into one's personal email or messaging accounts, for example. With Island, organizations can actually `say yes' to applications that challenge their security posture by setting policies that ensure no sensitive corporate data will be able to leak onto them.

Sometimes changing one thing changes everything.
3501 Olympus Blvd. Suite 350 Dallas, TX 75019 (866) 832 7114 info@island.io

Copyright © 2022 Island Technology, Inc. All rights reserved. The Island logo and island.io are trademarks or registered trademarks of Island Technology, Inc. in the United States and other countries.

