Safeguarding your digital world with Axiad Cloud

A single identity security solution in a complicated world
Achieving security and compliance can seem increasingly complex in today's digital environment. But it doesn't have to be.
Peace of mind without burdening your team, providing you the freedom to focus on your core mission.
Leaders have to manage cybersecurity risks, compliance, and operational efficiency for their workforce, partners, and customers. Axiad delivers agile identity security solutions that are trusted across leading enterprise, government, healthcare, and financial organizations.
IT Cybersecurity Challenges
With Axiad Cloud, you can mitigate risks, assure compliance, and conserve IT resources with a single, user-centric identity security platform.
Our Partnership Pledge empowers you to take the journey to secure a passwordless experience efficiently.
Every journey is unique therefore we believe it is crucial to understand your pain points and roadblocks and work alongside you to drive user adoption and achieve rapid and complete deployment. We understand that success will look different to you in the future, which is why Axiad designs products to meet your security needs of today and tomorrow. No matter what your journey looks like- we've got you!

Risks

Compliance

Budget & resources

User experience

Authentication and trust for every person, device and machine

Comprehensive identity security
By combining multi-factor authentication (MFA) and PKI to verify every person, device, and system in your ecosystem, Axiad Cloud goes well beyond traditional MFA to protect your data and safeguard your organization.

Dedicated virtual private cloud
With a dedicated VPC for each organization, Axiad Cloud operates as a secure extension of your network, protecting against the commingling of data and leveraging your existing security infrastructure.

Simple, efficient deployment
Let our team of experts provide you with support and training to ensure easy adoption. Axiad meets the needs and constraints of your IT department, with the platform up and ready to use in just hours.

Meet your security & compliance requirements

Cloud Features:
 Cloud-based HSM  Device & credential
management  Certificate authority  Full stack PKI  OTP & push notification
authentication

Security Standards:
 FIPS  NIST SP 800-53  SOC 2 compliant with
annual audits  Yubikey integration

One solution. One strategic partner.

AUTHENTICATION & SECURE COMMUNICATION
For Systems & Devices

AUTHENTICATED ACCESS & SECURE USER TRANSACTIONS
On- Prem Resources

MULTIFACTOR AUTHENTICATION & SECURE INTERACTIONS
For Users

MEDIUM

LOW

HIGH

RISK-APPROPRIATE CREDENTIALS

AUTHENTICATED ACCESS & SECURE USER TRANSACTIONS
Cloud Resources

Thanks to Axiad Cloud I don't have to choose between security, ease-of-use, and ease-of-management."
-- Security Officer at a defense contractor

Risk-appropriate security
Our enterprise-ready PKI issues a variety of credentials (mobile, YubiKeys, smart cards, tokens) for users with varied privileges and security needs.
Simplified user experience
Users manage credentials through a unified user portal, facilitating easy adoption, and can secure emergency access via peer authentication, which reduces help desk calls.
Reduced complexity with a single solution
Replace multiple systems with an integrated solution that addresses the full spectrum of multifactor authentication and secure interaction requirements.
Publicly trusted PKI
Meet compliance requirements and securely exchange information with regulated environments like WebTrust, Federal Bridge, and SAFE-BioPharma.
Seamless integrations
Leverage your existing infrastructure investments and integrate Axiad Cloud with other leading identity and access management (IAM) solutions.

About Axiad
Axiad delivers an agile, user-centric identity platform that is trusted across leading enterprise, government, healthcare, and financial organizations. Our platform helps leaders manage cybersecurity risks, compliance, and operational efficiency for their workforce, partners, and customers.
Our approach starts with what customers need from a security and business perspective. With Axiad, companies get a single supplier providing an integrated solution without sacrificing security.
axiad.com

