PROTECT YOUR PEOPLE
Human Layer Security Platform Overview
Tessian is the world's only Human Layer Security platform that automatically stops data breaches and security threats caused by employees on email.

How are you preventing Human Layer Security threats?
Human error is the primary root cause of data breaches over email. To prevent today's email threats, security controls must understand human behavior, and security and IT teams must have clear visibility into their human layer threats.
Tessian uses machine learning technology to uniquely address the risks posed by employees. We do this by:

Providing comprehensive visibility into your human layer risks.

Automatically detecting and preventing threats like accidental data loss, data exfiltration, and advanced phishing attacks (that legacy solutions can't detect).

And more importantly, we change behavior: we continuously drive your employees toward secure email behavior through contextual, in-the-moment training.

All of these together continually reduce security threats at the human layer and strengthen your organization's security posture. This is all done with no disruptions to your employees' productivity. Tessian deploys within minutes, learns within hours and starts protecting in a day.

Automated Threat Prevention

Comprehensive visibility into
human layer risks

Behavioral change through inthe-moment training

Platform Benefits
AUTOMATED THREAT PREVENTION AND REMEDIATION
Contextual machine learning (ML) understands human behavior on email, can predict normal and abnormal email activity, and can start preventing the most advanced threats within 24 hours of deployment. No pre-configuration required.
HOLISTIC VIEW OF HUMAN BEHAVIOR
Tessian maps employee email activity and builds unique security identities for every individual. Tessian dashboards and analytics surface these insights and give full visibility into threats you've never been able to detect before. Now you can predict and preempt security risks caused by unsafe human behavior.
MAKE PEOPLE YOUR STRONGEST DEFENSE
Tessian warnings act as in-the-moment training for employees, continuously educating them about threats, reinforcing your policies, and nudging them toward safe behavior. Take the right educational interventions and targeted remedial actions at scale.
EFFORTLESS AND NON-DISRUPTIVE
Easy to deploy, to manage, and to integrate with any email environment and enterprise security applications. You can set it and forget it, or partner with Tessian's dedicated team of security experts to optimize for your environment. Tessian is invisible to employees until they need it.

TESSIAN HUMAN LAYER SECURITY PLATFORM MODULES:

PEOPLE MAKE MISTAKES

Accidental Data Loss
Prevent misdirected emails and misattached files.

PEOPLE BREAK THE RULES

Data Exfiltration
Prevent unauthorized emails.

OUTBOUND DATA LOSS

Human Layer Risk
Management, Made Easy
Deep visibility into risk levels and drivers.

PEOPLE CAN BE TRICKED

Intelligent Policies and Custom Protection
Advance your Data Loss Prevention strategy with Automatic and Custom Policies.
Impersonation Attacks
Prevent spear phishing, BEC, and other impersonation attacks.

INBOUND EMAIL SECURITY

Insights, Investigation
and Remediation
Intelligence to investigate, remediate, and reduce human layer risks.

December 2021

HUMAN LAYER SECURITY PLATFORM OVERVIEW

Are these the correct attachments?
invoice_acme-corp_feb2021.pdf You do not normally send attachments referencing "Acme Corp" to these recipients. Based on your previous emails, this attachment looks unusual. Would you still like to send the email?
Guardian Desktop View

OUTBOUND DATA LOSS
Tessian Guardian is the industry's only solution that automatically prevents accidental data loss from misdirected emails and misattached files (sending wrong attachments over email).
Guardian compares millions of data points for every outbound email and detects anomalies that indicate whether the email is being sent to the wrong person or if a wrong document is being attached and alerts the user before the email is sent.
The email below was flagged and is being held. Do you still want to send the email to sandra.k@lawfirm.com?
Are these the correct attachments? invoice_acme-corp_feb2021.pdf
Based on your previous emails, this attachment looks unusual for the recipients because it mentions "Acme Corp". Would you still like to send the email?
Reply "Yes" to send the email below Reply "No" to delete the email below
If you do not respond by 07 Feb 2021 23:15 (PST) / 21:53 hours remaining, the email will be automatically deleted.
Guardian Mobile View

OUTBOUND DATA LOSS
Tessian Enforcer is the industry's first solution that uses machine learning to automatically prevent data exfiltration via email to employee personal, unauthorized and non-business accounts.
Powered by Tessian's proprietary Human Layer Security Engine, Enforcer analyzes millions of data points for every outbound email and detects anomalies that indicate data exfiltration before it leaves your organization. Tessian Enforcer notification messages can be customized to reinforce security awareness and data protection policies through in-the-moment training.

Tessian has detected that this email is being sent to an unauthorized email account.
billy@andreson-blog.com
Would you still like to send the email? Please explain why you are sending this email:

December 2021

Enforcer Desktop View

The email below has been blocked from sending because you have triggered "Confidential Attachments" filter.
Unclassified attachment(s) include: financials2019.xlsx
Enforcer Mobile View
HUMAN LAYER SECURITY PLATFORM OVERVIEW

INTELLIGENT EMAIL DLP POLICY ENGINE
Tessian Architect is a powerful policy engine for real-time email data loss prevention.
It features a combination of the classic elements of DLP policies, as well as intelligent policies that provide custom protection against sensitive data loss.
 Build Intelligent DLP Policies Combining Rules And Machine Learning
 Integrate With Data Classification Tools, Such As Microsoft Information Protection (Mip)
 Choose From A Library Of Prebuilt Policies Or Adopt Best Practices From The Tessian Community
Architect adds deeper capabilities to Tessian's best-inclass Email DLP platform which is the only solution that offers complete protection against any form of data loss through email, whether it's accidental data loss and sensitive data exfiltration to unauthorized parties.
DLP POLICY CAPABILITIES

Customize Rules and Exceptions

Prevent Sensitive-labeled Content from Leaving the Organization

December 2021

DLP Policy Performance Analysis

Detect Hidden Content in Excel Spreadsheets HUMAN LAYER SECURITY PLATFORM OVERVIEW

INBOUND EMAIL SECURITY
Tessian Defender is a comprehensive inbound email security solution that automatically prevents a wide range of attacks that bypass Secure Email Gateways (SEGs), while providing in-the-moment training to drive employees toward secure email behavior.
 Protect against both known and unknown email attacks, including business email compromise, account takeover, spear phishing, and all impersonation attacks that bypass SEGs, M365, and G Suite.
 With Defender's in-the-moment training, organizations can educate and empower users to build continuous email security awareness.
 Remove the burden on your Security Operations Center and admins by automating repetitive tasks such as maintaining triage and review. This eliminates the need for human verification of email threats, reducing FTE requirements.

Quickly view and remediate account takeover attacks.
INVESTIGATE AND REMEDIATE
With Tessian HLS Intelligence, security teams can now readily view curated security events prevented by Tessian with detailed threat breakdowns, make informed prioritization decisions, and respond to threats faster while benchmarking risks against industry peers.  Insights: Automated insights by inbound and
outbound threat categories where you can view top threats and trends, and benchmark against peers.  Investigation: Detailed event logs and threat breakdown, curated event priorities, and API integrations to connect to your SIEM/SOAR platforms.  Remediation: Quarantine and post-delivery protection, automated domain blacklisting from shared threat intelligence, and rulefree, single-click domain blacklisting.
December 2021

Take care, there is something unusual about this email.
Report as Malicious and Delete Mark as Safe Tessian has flagged this email because the sender could be trying to impersonate another company. The sender's email domain "@xyzsupplies-invoices.com" is similar to "@xyzsupplies.com", a domain that your company has an existing email relationship with.
Urgent: Unpaid Invoice
SK Sandra Kim <sandra.kim@xyzsupplies-invoices.com>
In-the-moment warnings educate employees about malicious emails.
Hi, The attached invoice is unpaid from last month. Please transfer funds asap. Thanks, Sandra XYZ Suppliers
HUMAN LAYER SECURITY PLATFORM OVERVIEW

INVESTIGATE AND REMEDIATE
Tessian's Human Layer Risk Hub enables security and risk management leaders to deeply understand their organization's email security posture by providing granular visibility and reporting into individual user risk levels and drivers.
With the Human Layer Risk Hub, SRM leaders will be able to quantify risk levels, pinpoint their high risk user groups, perform targeted remediation at scale, measure impact and demonstrate progress in lowering risks posed by employees.
THE HUMAN LAYER RISK HUB OFFERS:
 Unified Risk View: Email security, training, and risk analytics are offered all in one platform. It delivers a broad spectrum of risk analytics across outbound and inbound email threats and hard to solve problems such as accidental data loss, data exfiltration and advanced phishing attacks, with laser focus on the human layer.
 Unique Risk Insights: Enriched individual risk profiles that are modeled with a broad range of signals from email usage patterns, relationship graphs, security decisions in real time as well as from historical emails. Because of this unique data modeling, Tessian provides a profile that is contextually rich from day 1 of deployment.
 Defensible Audit: Detailed reporting and audit logs provide defensible proof against data breaches. If risk is identified, Tessian's Human Layer Risk Hub enables you to formally document all associated events such as exposure, owner, mitigation decisions and actions.
TESSIAN PROTECTS ENTERPRISE ORGANIZATIONS JUST LIKE YOURS:

See Tessian in Action.
Automatically stop data breaches and security threats caused by employees on email.

REQUEST A DEMO 

December 2021

Tessian's mission is to secure the human layer. Using machine learning technology, Tessian automatically stops data breaches and security threats caused by human error - like data exfiltration, accidental data loss, business email compromise and phishing attacks - with minimal disruption to employees' workflow. As a result, employees are empowered to do their best work, without security getting in their way. Founded in 2013, Tessian is backed by renowned investors like March Capital, Sequoia, Accel, and Balderton.
HUMAN LAYER SECURITY PLATFORM OVERVIEW

