Can AI Help Us Solve the Tech Diversity Divide?
Grace Balancio William Von Alt II
October 2018 | Version 1.0

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Forward-Looking Statements

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

During the course of this presentation, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the expected performance of the company. We caution you that such statements reflect our current expectations and estimates based on factors currently known to us and that actual events or results could differ materially. For important factors that may cause actual results to differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements, please review our filings with the SEC.
The forward-looking statements made in this presentation are being made as of the time and date of its live presentation. If reviewed after its live presentation, this presentation may not contain current or accurate information. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements we may make. In addition, any information about our roadmap outlines our general product direction and is subject to change at any time without notice. It is for informational purposes only and shall not be incorporated into any contract or other commitment. Splunk undertakes no obligation either to develop the features or functionality described or to include any such feature or functionality in a future release.
Splunk, Splunk>, Listen to Your Data, The Engine for Machine Data, Splunk Cloud, Splunk Light and SPL are trademarks and registered trademarks of Splunk Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective owners. © 2018 Splunk Inc. All rights reserved.

Let's Begin With a Test!

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

ponypoll.com/techdiversity

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Introductions are in order
Getting to know you...

Amazing Grace!
(aka Grace Balancio)
 Self-proclaimed data geek with 14 years of data management experience
 Describes my IT career as a D.R.E.A.M(Data Rules Everything Around Me)
 Loves to sleep

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Who's This "2.0" Guy, Anyways?
(aka William Von Alt II)

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 { Technologist | Data Geek | Educator | Splunker }
 Doing this Splunk thing for 6+ years
 20 years of progressively responsible IT positions ­ SysOp to Program Manager, and everything in between!
 Not a Data Scientist!

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Survey says...
What do our results say about us?

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Insert your own screenshot here. For best results, use an image sized at 1450 x 850
PonyPoll Results

Here's the Stark Reality
We didn't say it would be pretty 
Let's discuss...
Reference: Low, J. T. (2015, March 12). The diversity gap in silicon valley. Available online from: https://bit.ly/18DVQWx.

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Mind the Gap!
Common forms of diversity biases
 Gender distribution  Pay & equity disparity  Ethnic representation  Age discrimination  and others...

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

But surely things have gotten better since 2014??

Ehhhhh...
Perhaps not so much

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Trends do not appear to be showing movement in a favorable direction ...or at all!

Reference:
National Center for Women & Information Technology. (2018, April 9). Women and information technology: By the numbers.
Available online from: https://bit.ly/1bAXkm3.

Interest Over Time...
Raising awareness

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Ain't nobody got time for that!
Or, how does ML factor into this equation?

Three Types of Machine Learning

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Supervised Learning

Unsupervised Learning

Reinforcement Learning

Overview of ML at Splunk

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

CORE PLATFORM SEARCH

PACKAGED PREMIUM SOLUTIONS

MACHINE LEARNING TOOLKIT

Platform for Machine Data

Machine Learning Process with Splunk

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Publish/ Deploy

Collect Data

Evaluate
Model ML Toolkit

Clean/ Transform
Explore/ Visualize

Splunk Search Includes Machine Learning
Baked right in!
Core Platform Search is a powerful and highly flexible interface built with ML:

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

anomalydetection

What are the ML commands in SPL?
Selected algorithms

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 Cluster ­ groups events together based on how



similar they are to each other

 Anomalies ­ finds events or field values that are 

unusual or unexpected



 Predict ­ forecasts values for one or more sets of

time-series data

 Kmeans ­ Kmeans clustering on events



 Anomalousvalue ­ anomaly score for each field
of each event, relative to the values of this field across other events

 Anomalydetection ­ identifies anomalous events
by computing a probability for each event and then detecting unusually small probabilities

X11 ­ exposes seasonal trend in your time series
Associate ­ Change in entropy between two fields
Findkeywords ­ Given a set of numbered groups
(from say cluster) calculates the common words found in each cluster
Analyzefields ­ What is the ability of a set of fields
to predict a single field. Univariate analysis

Reference Docs: http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/SearchReference/ListOfSearchCommands

What are the ML commands in SPL?
Data munging at its finest

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 Trendline ­ Moving Averages of fields
 Erex ­ Use the erex command to extract data from a
field when you do not know the regular expression to use
 Correlation ­ Co-occurence NOT correlation as per
Pearson et., (don't mix this up!)
 Autoregress ­ Copies one or more previous values
for a field into an event. (Not auto regression!)
 Contingency ­ Frequency distribution matrix
 Cofilter ­ find how many times field1 and field2
values occurred together

And so many, many more !!!

Reference Docs: http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/SearchReference/ListOfSearchCommands

Custom Machine Learning in Splunk
A formula for success

Set business/ops priorities

Domain Expertise

Identify use cases Drive decisions

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

SPL
Data prep
Operational success

Splunk Expertise

Data Science Expertise

Statistics / math background
Algorithm selection
Model building
Splunk ML Toolkit facilitates and simplifies via examples & guidance

Splunk Machine Learning Toolkit

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

25+ standard algorithms available prepackaged
EXAMPLE
New commands to fit, test and operationalize models

Guide model building, testing and deployment for common objectives
EXAMPLE
300+ open source algorithms

Interactive examples for 25+ use cases
EXAMPLE
IT; Security; Business; and IoT Use cases

Algorithms

Assistants

Showcase

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
I'll believe it when I see it!
Selected examples of diversity data in action

Challenges with Diversity Data
I thought this would be easy
 Recency of data  Self identification  Data cleanliness  Availability

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Insert your own screenshot here. For best results, use an image sized at 1450 x 850
ML Toolkit Demo

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Key Takeaways
This is where the subtitle goes

1. If you can't measure it, you can't
improve it.
2. The Splunk ML Toolkit is applicable to
all types of real-world use cases.
3. Awareness is key to future progress.

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Questions?
Don't be shy!

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.
"If you're going to build a product for
everyone, you need to have a team that represents everyone."
Ramya Raghavan Head of Programming, Civics & News, Google

Splunk On!
Don't forget to rate this session in the .conf18 mobile app

© 2018 SPLUNK INC.

