Ask Splunk! Using natural language, voice and chat with Project Natural Language Search
October 2018 | Version 1.0

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Our Speakers

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

DIPOCK DAS
Senior Director, Products, Splunk

v
DAYANAND POCHUGARI Senior Manager,
Engineering, Splunk

Forward-Looking Statements

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

During the course of this presentation, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the expected performance of the company. We caution you that such statements reflect our current expectations and estimates based on factors currently known to us and that actual events or results could differ materially. For important factors that may cause actual results to differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements, please review our filings with the SEC.
The forward-looking statements made in this presentation are being made as of the time and date of its live presentation. If reviewed after its live presentation, this presentation may not contain current or accurate information. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements we may make. In addition, any information about our roadmap outlines our general product direction and is subject to change at any time without notice. It is for informational purposes only and shall not be incorporated into any contract or other commitment. Splunk undertakes no obligation either to develop the features or functionality described or to include any such feature or functionality in a future release.
Splunk, Splunk>, Listen to Your Data, The Engine for Machine Data, Splunk Cloud, Splunk Light and SPL are trademarks and registered trademarks of Splunk Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective owners.  2018 Splunk Inc. All rights reserved.

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

What we will show you ...

1. What is Project Natural Language Search 2. Why it will make your life easier 3. How you can use it

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Save your questions

Let's talk. Visit our booth on the conf floor.

 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Introduction

Is this you?
Hey, how many security incidents in the last hour ?

 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Where's that IT report?

Can you update that dashboard to include sales across stores?

Hey what's the SPL for ...

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

But what about everyone else?

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Management

Sales

Marketing

Finance

Shop Floor

Warehouse

Maintenance

Service

Users need the right tools to suit their skills

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

SPL

Natural Language

What is Natural Language?

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

How many security incidents in the last hour ?

What were sales quarter over quarter in 2017?

When will we run out of stock?

 2018 SPLUNK INC.
What is Project Natural Language Search?
Project Natural Language Search is a natural language platform for machine data that delivers Natural Language Search, Understanding and Generation
for Splunk and SQL data.

Natural Language
Search

Communicate instantly in charts,
text and voice

Access anywhere with type, touch,
voice

NLS understands the intent then creates the SPL 2018SPLUNKINC.

show
verb

me daily
pronoun adjective

sales
plural

of

cappuccino

preposition singular noun

in
preposition

Vancouver
singular noun

last 10 days
value plural

predicate

clause

subject

subject

clause

clause

time grain sales data

product data

cities

time range from now

Intent: {sum} {sales} {product} {timegrain} {city} {time range}

SPL | tstats allow_old_summaries=t summariesonly=t SUM("All_Sales.grossSales") AS "All_Sales.grossSales" FROM datamodel=Retail.All_Sales WHERE ((("All_Sales.productName"="cappuccino") AND ("All_Sales.city" IN ("vancouver","san francisco","san jose"))) AND ((earliest=1533427200) AND(latest=1534291199))) BY "All_Sales.city"
_time span=1d | eval All_Sales__time_date=strftime(_time, "%Y-%m-%d") | table All_Sales__time_date "All_Sales.city" "All_Sales.grossSales"

 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Demo

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Can I use it?

1. Yes !!
2. SaaS for On Premise and Cloud customers
3. Needs a Splunk data model - you can create models to suit the questions people want answers to

Model Driven Natural Language Understanding 2018SPLUNKINC.

Data Model

Semantic Model

Trained Model

From raw data to insights - simple steps to NLQ 2018SPLUNKINC.

What questions?

Create a

Enrich

Users ask Trained Machine

Data model Semantic Model questions Learning Model

Creating the Semantic Model

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Datamodel

Ontology

Administrator

 Entities  Attributes

 Named Entities  Relationships  Synonyms  Context

What questions can
I ask?

 2018 SPLUNK INC.
 Time-bound
 sales quarter over quarter in 2018  incidents between 1AM and 2AM by the minute
 Time & Context
 traffic by country last 5 minutes  unusual traffic by IP address
 Compute
 average sales revenue by City for Widget X  what is the standard deviation of sales of X
 Identification
 show me products with high sugar content
 Comparison
 number of open service tickets by employee
 Ranked
 city with the highest sales last week  user with the most login failures today

What SPL is supported?

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

 eval

 earliest

 in

 stats  tstats

 latest  join

 rest  AND & OR

 group by

 values

 <,>,= & !=

 table  search

 mvexpand  span

 LIKE - wildcards (*string*)  iplocation

 dedup

 predict ( with timechart )  strftime with different

 where

 predict using LLP5

formats %b %Y %m..etc

 Summaries ->

 inputlookup

 AVG,SUM,COUNT,STDEV

allow_old_summaries,  tail

, MIN, MAX

summariesonly

 output

 sort with ASC & DESC  not

 rename

 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Demo

 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Ask Splunk!

Alexa for Work

 2018 SPLUNK INC.
 Announced at AWS re:Invent 2017  What you can do today
 Ask questions just as you would using the NLS
Splunk app
 Use it for Public data use cases  No need to create skills for each use case!!
 How you set it up
 Connects your Alexa for Work account to a
Splunk named user
 Requires OAUTH
 What it cannot do
 Does not authenticate user on a per user
request

Ask questions using Voice enabled devices

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

MP3

AWS
Automatic Speech
Recognition

NLQ NLG

NLS Service SPL
Project NLS results

Splunk Instance

Ask questions using a Chatbot
 Slack  Cisco Webex for Teams  Custom

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Chat enabled

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

NLQ

Slack

NLQ

NLS Service SPL

Splunk Instance

Chat service NLG, results

Project NLS results

With the NLS REST API - you can be a Superhero ! 2018SPLUNKINC.
 Integrate NL into your own apps
 Example: CLI tool  Get the code:
https://github.com/dipoc kdas/jubilee-cli

 2018 SPLUNK INC.
Demo

Out of the box ontologies for Premium Solutions 2018SPLUNKINC.

 top 10 malware by host  show me account lockouts this week  which servers are listening on ports 80
and 443?
 show users with more than 10 failed
logins this week
 show network traffic today by second
between 1AM and 3AM
 how many critical vulnerabilities were
found today by host and signature?

 Show me all the critical services  Worst KPIs in Service X  Worst Entities in KPI X  Tell me which services will be critical in
30 minutes
 How many tickets are linked to open
events
 How many episodes have we closed in
the past X hours

We can't guarantee that you can answer all your questions out of the box - but using the ontology workbench you can quickly tailor the semantic model to meet your needs.

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Where next?

1. Dialogue/chat based - conversational
discovery
2. Behavioral Analytics
3. You decide. Get involved.
Dipock Das - dipock@splunk.com Melissa Gannes - mgannes@splunk.com

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Key Takeaways

1. NLS SaaS LAR available for On Prem
and Cloud customers
2. Use NLS for your own use cases
3. You can access NLS anywhere

Other sessions

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Machine Learning & Natural Language Processing at BMW (FN1199)

11:30 yesterday

Spreading the Word: How Chat and Voice Is Transforming Splunk in Retail AI Ops (FN1572)

4:30 yesterday

How we use machine learning in Project Natural Language Search - a Natural Language Platform (FN1629)

11:00 today

Oh and one last thing .....

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

Where's that sales report?

top 5 countries by sales last week daily sales in San Francisco last 5 days

daily quantity of spicy chai last week

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

sales by minute in San Francisco last 24 hours

Thank You
Don't forget to rate this session in the .conf18 mobile app

 2018 SPLUNK INC.

