How to create a
successful open source project.
Hangzhou, China, 2013

Michael Widenius MySQL & MariaDB founder
monty@mariadb.org

Erich S. Raymond & Linus Torvalds
"Given a large enough beta-tester and codeveloper base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix will be obvious to someone"
or how Linus Thorvalds rephrases this
"Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow"

This talk is for
 People wanting to understand how open source works.  People wanting to create an open source project.  People wanting to participate, drive or fork an open
source project.
In addition I will talk about
 How to make money with Open Source  Difference in business model between MySQL and
MariaDB.

Top reasons for creating an open source project
 Solving one of ones personal problems > For the company you are working (MySQL/PHP) > As a research project, part of your hobby (LINUX)
 Re-license an existing closed source project to open source to get the benefits of open source (Netscape)
 Wanting to earn money and at the same time do something good.
 Wanting to give back something to the open source community.

Developing software open source is in human nature
 You solve your own problems and get free help and development efforts from others while doing it.
 You pariticpate to increase your reputation (to get a new job?)
 You use open source because it's less expensive (and re-usable)
 You give patches back to not have to maintain them.
There are of course people that participate because they belive in the open source cause or want to help others, but these are a minority (and most still gets paid for this).

Before starting a new open source project
 Check that if there is already an existing actively developed project.
> It's always better to participate than to do new project or a fork!
 If there are only old dead projects, do some research why they failed and learn from their misstakes. > Sourceforge, Github and Launchpad is filled with dead projects.
 Find a company or a group of users that wants to work with you to define the scope of the project. > You want to have users ASAP that are using the project in production!

It's not just software
 The most important part with open source is to create an active community!
 You also need (to interact with the community): > Web pages (someone needs to design these)
> A forum or a knowledgebase, email lists, bug system.
> Documentation & localization
> Packages, build system, mirrors (for downloads)
> Source code repository
In the beginning you can use github or launchpad to host the project and Open Build Service to build your project, but over time you will need more controll and do this yourself.

You need a good team and active community
 A designated active leader (Linux) or active leaders (MariaDB / PostgreSQL) that have the respect from the community.
 A group of good open Open Source Citizens maintaining the community.
 People with good "old time" coding style standards that actively teach others and participate with the community.
 Active and passionate user and developer community around your product.
 Developers that is using the product daily in production.  Developers that need to extend the product for their own
needs.
Generally the quality of the product is defined by the technical leaders

Transparency is critical for long time success
 An open development model (all email list, discussions architecture, decisions should be open).
 Clear guidelines for how things are done and will be done.  Clear license and business model.  Extensive documentation.  Be clear about your roadmap and release schedule.  Good open review process of patches that enforces
quality.  Be transparent with your plans and let users influence
them.  Be open about your bugs, and when they will be
addressed. Keep your promises!

Communicate with your community
 Attend conferences and talk about your product.  Listen to what your users want and either do it or help
them do it themselves.  Make it easy for people to communicate with you and
find information about your product!  Ensure that most questions on your forums and email
lists are answered.  Understanding that people who write the code 'owns'
the code  Don't expect the community to produce any code.
Recognize that the path for turning a user to a customer can be long, and don't let short term monetary interest distract your long term winning strategy

Be good open source citizens
 Be open about your use of external code - Share the fame!
 Provide quick feedback to providers (bug reports and fixes, code enhancements, ideas)
 Help others in forums (around your code, and around related code you know)
 Keep up a high ethical standard on the email lists/forums.
 Don't talk bad about competing projects. > Fact based comparision is ok.
 Being a good Open Source Citizen will build trust in you and your product, and will pay off over time.
Building a supportive Community later in the game is extremely hard - You should start day 1

You need to get the product out there and used!
 Release early - release often, binaries + source.  Aim that each release, including alpha, should be bug free
enough to be usable in production by those that try it. > People will first use your product and only start
extending when they belive in it and it's easier to extend it for their own needs then move to something else.  Work with the distributions and cloud providers to get the product in there.  Use a good open toolset for development (Sourceforge, Launchpad or own) to make it easy for others to participate.

Doing business with Open Source
Open Source is a philosophy and a development model.
Open Source does not gurantee that you will get enough money to develop and/or support your product.

Different kind of Open Source products
 Products developed by the community. > Typically larger projects that are developed by many companies to solve their business critical needs or to embedd in their products.
­ Linux, PHP, Apache, MariaDB  Products that are a tools for the company and released as
open source to get more community development.  A small team or company that is developing and driving an
Open Source product as their main offering. > These have often a hard time to compete with closed
source software (not enough money for full time developement).
­ MySQL, JBoss, Wordpress, most open source software

Questions to consider when creating a company
 Do you plan for a virtual company ("no offices")?  Are you creating a company of equals? Should the
company be owned by employees (Hacking business model)?  Do you want to concentrate on services or development ? > If development, what license to choose?
 Do you plan to have a big community or work with a few big companies ?
 Do you plan to take in investors ? > If yes, then you need an 'exit' plan.

What business model to choose?
 Service company
> Man powered services (support, training, consulting) > Valuation 2 x revenue
 Software company
> Licensing, Software as a service (SAAS), Subscription
> Valuation 10 x revenue + X * number of users

What is the final goal with the company
 Sold on the market
> Unpredictable future for product/employees > Quick, often high, profit for owners
 Go public on stock market
> Original owners can still be part of steering the company
> Somewhat unsure profit (as owners can typically only sell after 6 months)
 Owned by founders, employees (and investors)
> Stable predictable future > Owners gets dividends, employees gets bonus
 Create an open source foundation

Why go Open Source?
 Spread the product more quickly (more users)  Get some part of the development done elsewhere (lower
cost)  Get things more tested and more bug reports (higher quality)  Possible to get development done in 'not business critical'
directions (more useful product)  Easier to find good developers, partners and customers
The above means more market recognition, feedback, leads, business, partners and sell opportunities and a strong trademark.
In general open source projects gets more feedback and
better bug reports than closed source project.

Reasons for users to trust a open source vendor
 Open source vendors are more trustworthy as they depend on trust to survive
 No vendor lock in. Your investment in using the product is safe even if:
> Vendor goes out of business
> Vendor would surprisingly change business terms radically
> Vendor would stop supporting the version of the product you are using
If this would happen to a popular product, someone would go away with the code and start maintain it themselves
 Little risk for hidden trap doors as one can examine the product code

Benefits for developers using open source vendor
 Easy to get access, look at and use the code  Freedom to examine and change any part of
the code to satisfy your business reasons, fix bugs or port to other systems.  Freedom to find anyone to do the above  Freedom to use (read, build and change) the code and redistribute the code in an open source environment.

Benefits for big business / countries using open source
 You can develop your own infrastructure to tune the software for your own means (language, unique requirements)
> Facebook, Google > Brazil, Iceland  You get internal knowhow you can utilize for business  Not depending on an outside vendor (for minor
things).  No license costs; Low to very low cost of ownership!
 It's in your interest to collaborate with the original community for long term sustainability
> A full fork is expensive in the long run!

When go Open Source? IF you can create a sustainable business model
around Open Source, proprietary vendors will have hard to compete with you
It's nowadays increasingly harder to sell closed source solutions in a lot of business sectors.
Nor surprisingly, it's hard to choose the right license for your software as it significantly impacts your strategy, i.e.
 How you can co-operate with your user community  How you can build your business

How to choose an OS license?
 Key Questions:
 What is your business idea around the open source product?
> Services, subscriptions and/or licensing ?  What rights do you keep to your code when used,
modified and potentially redistributed?  What kind of community do you want around the
product?

The main open source licenses (Very simple view)
 Public domain > Gives user freedom to do anything, including changing your copyright and claim they wrote it.
 BSD/Apache > Gives user freedom to full use, but needs to keep copyright in the source code.
 LGPL > Gives user freedom to use freely, but if they distribute it changed, they need to publish the changes under LGP
 GPL > Gives user freedom to use it freely, but if they distribute it, they need to publish changes and their code under GPL
 AGPL (Optional addition to GPL V3) > Free usage, but users needs to publish the code and the code connected to it even if not distributed (like web server).

Business models to use with open source
 Open-Core Model - have an open-source core and sell closed-source features on top of it (e.g. SugarCRM)
 Dual Licensing Model- one product/project that gets licensed with a viral, GPL-style license and a commercial closedsource license (e.g. MySQL)
> Another option is "Business source" or delayed Open Source
 Services Models - where you get to download a productized version of an open-source project and pay a fee for the support you get on it or the features you sponsor. You can normally also pay for training, features etc
 Subscriptions (Usually a combination of support, extended product lifetime and guaranteed updates)
 Creating a non profit foundation to fund the development (FSF, MariaDB foundation)

Open Core
 Probably most popular way nowadays for business trying to do open source first time.
 What Oracle is doing with MySQL and EnterpriseDB with PostgreSQL
 Is not an open source business model, because it uses closed components and most of the benefits open source developers expect from the product is gone:
> You can't change, modify, port or redistribute the code
> You are locked to one vendor
 You may be able to create a small developer community around the product but mainly by people that doesn't need the closed source extensions.
 For community developers, the "worst" possible offer is open core or closed source that used under subscription and stops working when subscription runs out

Dual licensing
 Used first by Ghostscript. MySQL was the second product to use it.
 Can only be used when you have full rights to all the code.
 Give out the same code under two licenses, for example GPL and normal commercial closed source.
 Companies that can't use the GPL (because they don't want to give out their code) can buy the closed source version.
 Only works well for infrastructure, easily embeddable products, like libraries or databases.

Business source
 Not an open source license, but gives the community similar advantages.
 Source code is available, anyone has the right to copy, modify & distribute but can't use it commercially under some conditions you define.
 After X years the code automaticly converts to some open source/free license. The date has to be explicitly set in all source code files to avoid misunderstandings
 Better than Open Core as this removes the "one vendor" problem and the code will eventually be free.

Business source
 Published in http://timreview.ca/article/691  Overview at http://monty-says.blogspot.com/  Discussed on Slashdot
http://developers.slashdot.org/story/13/06/26/15522 15/monty-suggests-a-business-friendly-license-thattrends-open
 Unfortunately the second link is blocked in China, so you have to access it by a VPN.

The importance of selling licensing
 MySQL would never have been possible without licenses.  Very hard to get companies to pay for support or
development > Companies expect to use open source for free
> Exception is companies you work with to develop the open source project
 Subscriptions are good, but also hard to sell  Licensing is "free money" for the project
> You need one entity that holds the copyright to the whole project or use SAAS (Software as a service)
> You need to be able to dual license your project
> Your project is an infrastructure project that is usually embedded into others.

Business differences between MySQL and MariaDB
 MySQL Ab made money on services (support, training, paid for development) and dual licensing. Designed to be able to take investors.
 MySQL was mainly developed by one company.  MariaDB has companies like SkySQL that does
services around it. MariaDB foundations gets donations to drive MariaDB development with the community.  A lot of development on MariaDB is done by SkySQL, but there is also a lot of community development.

The end

