© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Have No Fear WMI is Here: Identify Lateral Movement and Malicious Backdoors with WMI
Ryan Becwar
Sales Engineer | Splunk

ForwardLooking Statements

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
During the course of this presentation, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or plans of the company. We caution you that such statements reflect our current expectations and estimates based on factors currently known to us and that actual events or results may differ materially. The forward-looking statements made in the this presentation are being made as of the time and date of its live presentation. If reviewed after its live presentation, it may not contain current or accurate information. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements made herein.
In addition, any information about our roadmap outlines our general product direction and is subject to change at any time without notice. It is for informational purposes only, and shall not be incorporated into any contract or other commitment. Splunk undertakes no obligation either to develop the features or functionalities described or to include any such feature or functionality in a future release.
Splunk, Splunk>, Turn Data Into Doing, The Engine for Machine Data, Splunk Cloud, Splunk Light and SPL are trademarks and registered trademarks of Splunk Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective owners. © 2019 Splunk Inc. All rights reserved.

Agenda
The Discussion Points

1. Introduction 2. WMI Overview 3. WMI Attacks 4. WMI Attacks Detections 5. Ingesting 6. Takeaways 7. Q & A

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
WMI/MI Overview
What exactly is WMI?

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
"Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) is the infrastructure for management
data and operations on Windows-based operating systems."
 Microsoft

WMI Functionality
So what exactly can you do with WMI?
What does it do?
· Automate administrative tasks on remote computers via WMI scripts or applications
· Supplies management data to other parts of the operating system and products

Providers
· Active Directory · BitLocker Drive Encryption (BDE) · Boot Configuration Data (BCD) · Domain Name System (DNS) · Group Policy provider · Hyper-V provider · Mobile Device Management (MDM) · Shadow Copy · And many, many more...

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

WMI Architecture
How does it work?

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

MI vs. WMI
Infrastructure or Instrumentation -- that is the question
Tight alignment with standards
New native-code provider APIs
API support for rich PowerShell semantics
New approach to creating PowerShell cmdlets from MI providers using XML
Backward combability with older WMI implementation
MI is a downloadable update to Windows 7, Windows Server 2008 R2, and Windows Server Standard

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
WMI/MI Based Attacks
How WMI/MI is leveraged in attacks?

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Attackers Love WMI/MI
Can you feel the love?

It's built in to Windows no install necessary!
· Living off the land (LotL)!
It's scriptable via PowerShell and Sysmon
· Great for persistence
Fileless
· Information made available through providers
Attackers particularly love Win32_ Process Create

Can be leveraged in remote attacks
· winrm and wmic
Often not monitored
· Lack of knowledge
Leveraged for Internal Recon
· WMI queries to gather system information
Log are often verbose in nature
· Can be noisy

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
WMI Attack Examples
Who uses WMI anyways?
APT32 used WMI to deploy their tools on remote machines and to gather information about the Outlook process APT29 used WMI to steal credentials and execute backdoors at a future time FIN8's spear phishing payloads use WMI to launch malware and spawn cmd.exe execution. They also use WMIC during and post compromise cleanup activities BlackEnergy uses WMI to gather victim host details Deep Panda is known to utilize WMI for lateral movement Empire and Cobalt Strike can use WMI to deliver a payload to a remote host FireEye Bring Your Own Land (BYOL) attack leverages WMIC to execute payloads while obfuscating PowerShell commands... more on this in a second

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
WMI/MI Attacks Detections
How can we detect WMI based attacks

Previous .conf Talk on WMI
Conventional way to identify WMI based attacks
Windows WMI Activity Events
· Event IDs 5859 and 5861 (can be extremely noisy) · Event ID 5860
Sysmon WMI Events
· Event ID 19 Look for new Event Filters being registered · Event ID 21 Look for Binding

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Limitations with Conventional WMI Alerting
Where does conventional alerting fall off the rails?

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Not all the activity is logged
· Some techniques are obfuscated

Can be verbose in nature
· Feels like you're drinking from a water hose

Events sometimes contain less actionable information
· WMI Activity logs do NOT contain details of newly created Consumers, Filters or Bindings used for WMI persistence
· Complex correlation is sometimes necessary

ETW are debug logs... more on this in a second
· Format is in binary · Not ingested by Splunk... or is it?

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Ingesting WMI Events into Splunk

What are Trace Events?
ETW
Event Tracing for Windows (ETW)
Event logs are a fraction of what is actually produced
· Receives events from ETW · ETW events that support "Channels" are written to the
Event log · Each Provider has a unique GUID
­ Hyphened Microsoft-Windows-WMI-Activity
Microsoft-Windows-Powershell
Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Benefits of WMI Trace
What's so special about the trace logs
Difficult for Security teams to detect WMI activity through the Event Log on endpoints and the network for
· Remote execution · Persistence mechanism · Lateral movement · etc
Most PowerShell and Sysmon obfuscated WMI based attacks can be seen
Entire log aka... NO FILTERING!

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Turn On the Trace Events
Great now what?
Two options for enabling WMI Tracing on endpoints:
· Command line:
­ wevtutil.exe sl Microsoft-Windows-WMI-Activity/Trace /e:true
· Via the Registry:
­ HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\WINEVT\Channels\Microsoft-Windows-WMI-Activity/Trac e DWORD = Enabled (0 or 1)
WMI trace events will be recorded within the
· Event Log file
­ %SystemRoot%\System32\Winevt\Logs\Microsoft-Windows-WMI-Activity%4Trace.etl". RD = Enabled (0 or 1)

WMI on WMI
WoW... Monitor WMI with WMI?
PS Script developed by FireEye
Feed WMI Trace logs from endpoints into SIEM to gain greater visibility
Logs high-fidelity WMI events to the application log
Contains only
· Event Consumer Name · Event Consumer Command · Process Call Method · Process Call Command

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Ingesting the Data into Splunk
But how do we ingest this into Splunk?
WMI/Trace events are debug logs and the format is in binary
· Splunk currently does not like the format
Run a PowerShell script on the endpoint
· https://gist.github.com/mattifestation/aff0cb8bf66c7f6ef44a#file-example_wmi_detection_eventlogalert-ps 1

Ingestion Roadblocks
Wait, something's missing...
Some environments may leverage WMI invoked process creations for system administration
· Establish white list/black list
Why am I only seeing just a generalized name for the events and not the entire command that was executed?
· Forked the PS script to include the entire event!
­ https://gist.github.com/rbecwar/2413500e5f8d71e01580c29879d114cf

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Event Validation
Can we test this?
Detecting malicious WMI trace events
· Malicious events are rolled into one simplistic alert
· sourcetype= WinEventLog:Application Source=WSH EventCode=8
· sourcetype=XmlWinEventLog source="XmlWinEventLog:Application" EventCode=8

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
PowerShell test script to simulate the attacks
· https://gist.github.com/mattifestation/fa2e3cea7 6f70b1e2267#file-wmi_attack_detection-ps1-L1 83

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
References
Rico Valdez .conf18 "The Hacker's Chocolate to their PowerShell Peanutbutter"
· https://static.rainfocus.com/splunk/splunkconf18/sess/1523578675195001VubJ/finalPDF/SEC1833_WMITheHackerChocolate_Final_1 5385980427120012ky0.pdf
FireEye blogs
· https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2016/08/wmi_vs_wmi_monitor.html · https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2018/06/bring-your-own-land-novel-red-teaming-technique.html
MITRE ATT&CK
· https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1047/
GitHub repo
· https://gist.github.com/rbecwar/2413500e5f8d71e01580c29879d114cf/revisions
Matt Graeber Derbycon 2019
· http://www.irongeek.com/i.php?page=videos/derbycon9/1-05-how-do-i-detect-technique-x-in-windows-applied-methodology-to-definitiv ely-answer-this-question-matt-graeber

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Key Takeaways
WMI Trace Events

1. Fairly simple deployment
2. Better visibility for WMI events
3. Great for detecting obfuscated WMI
attacks Not a silver bullet!

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Thank

You

!

Go to the .conf19 mobile app to

RATE THIS SESSION

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Q&A
Ryan Becwar | Sales Engineer

