© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Advanced Threat Hunting
Richard Towle
Enterprise Architect: Security | Splunk

ForwardLooking Statements

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
During the course of this presentation, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or plans of the company. We caution you that such statements reflect our current expectations and estimates based on factors currently known to us and that actual events or results may differ materially. The forward-looking statements made in the this presentation are being made as of the time and date of its live presentation. If reviewed after its live presentation, it may not contain current or accurate information. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements made herein.
In addition, any information about our roadmap outlines our general product direction and is subject to change at any time without notice. It is for informational purposes only, and shall not be incorporated into any contract or other commitment. Splunk undertakes no obligation either to develop the features or functionalities described or to include any such feature or functionality in a future release.
Splunk, Splunk>, Turn Data Into Doing, The Engine for Machine Data, Splunk Cloud, Splunk Light and SPL are trademarks and registered trademarks of Splunk Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective owners. © 2019 Splunk Inc. All rights reserved.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Johnathan Guillotte
Senior Security Engineer | LyondellBasell

Christopher Schuler
Security Masked Superhero | LyondellBasell

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Advanced Threat Hunting with UBA

What is Splunk UBA?
Splunk UBA is an out-of-the-box solution that helps organizations find unknown threats and anomalous behavior with the use of machine learning.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
critical and actionable unknown threats

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Making machine data accessible, usable, and valuable to everyone.

Anomalies
What are we hunting?

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Spotting Anomalies
Unique behavior

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

"Access to Crown Jewels"

"Strange Time of Day"

"Exfil of Large file"

Peer Grouping
Behavior grouping

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Spotting Deviation From Team
Group behavior

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

"Peer group never access that Data
Store"

"Different location from all peers"

"Different time of day from peers"

What are UBA Customers Detecting?

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Account Misuse

Compromised User Account

 Privilege Abuse of admin account  Detection of account sharing  Detection of Shadow IT Servers  Privilege operations on self

 Compromised service accounts that enabled remote access
 Usage of co-worker's machine by user
 Query blank password on admin acct

 Short lived accounts on Box & AD

 Interactive logins by service accounts

 Unauthorized password change attempt

 Critical file access by service accounts

 Unauthorized file access

 Unauthorized application usage

Compromised/ Infected Machine
 Malware communication where the standard security tools failed to detect (multiple customers)
 Exposed company's sensitive information on public web services
 Compromised mobile phone generating suspicious outbound connection
 Infected machine based on alert correlation & internal detection

Lateral Movement
 Creation of temporary local accounts across multiple machines
 Unusual process creating sockets across internal machines

What are UBA Customers Detecting?

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Data Exfiltration

Suspicious Behavior/ Unknown Threat

 User forwarding all corporate emails to personal email address
 User copying few years older email archive data from central repository
 High volume of data downloads from box and previews indicating data gathering/snooping
 Users exfiltrating data out of organization - detected by deviations from user's and peer group's profiles

 Users with web proxy disabled  Users logging in from
unusual/unauthorized geo locations
 Suspicious call home activity  Users encountering malvertising  Suspicious account lockout  Misconfigured services using
expired credentials
 Accounts impersonating user logins  Misconfigured/corrupted VDI profile  Unauthorized use of P2P software  Unauthorized corporate resource
usage for BitCoin mining
 DNS abuse activity

Contextual Intelligence
 Automatic detection of user/account related details  Account types - domain administrators, service
accounts
 User risk scoring ­ internal & external risk  Automatic detection of device types in
environment  DCs, exchange servers, email servers, DNS servers,
personal laptops, web servers, NTP servers
 Popularity of external domains & IPs

External Attack
 Detection of directory traversal attacks based on malicious strings in Web URL requests to web servers
 RDP traffic from suspicious sources

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
UBA Data Ingestion from Splunk Core-ES

Where Does UBA Fit?

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Adding Data Direct From Kafka Direct From Indexer to UBA

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Demo

UBA in Security
Machine Learning is cool

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
1. Accelerate investigation of advanced threats
through automated early attack detection
2. Increase SOC efficiency and work smarter
by leveraging the power of machine learning to augment SIEM
3. Optimize insider threat detection and
uncover unknown threats by combining threat intel from SIEM and UBA
4. A proven, analytics-driven SIEM
supercharged with machine learning and behavior analytics

Q&A

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Thank
Richard Towle
rtowle@splunk.com
You

!

Go to the .conf19 mobile app to

RATE THIS SESSION

