AWS & Splunk "Take Action" Playbook: Identify & Resolve Security Incidents with Splunk, Phantom, AWS Security Hub and AWS Services
Scott Ward
Principal Solutions Architect | Amazon Web Services

Forward-Looking Statements

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

During the course of this presentation, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the expected performance of the company. We caution you that such statements reflect our current expectations and estimates based on factors currently known to us and that actual events or results could differ materially. For important factors that may cause actual results to differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements, please review our filings with the SEC.
The forward-looking statements made in this presentation are being made as of the time and date of its live presentation. If reviewed after its live presentation, this presentation may not contain current or accurate information. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements we may make. In addition, any information about our roadmap outlines our general product direction and is subject to change at any time without notice. It is for informational purposes only and shall not be incorporated into any contract or other commitment. Splunk undertakes no obligation either to develop the features or functionality described or to include any such feature or functionality in a future release.
Splunk, Splunk>, Listen to Your Data, The Engine for Machine Data, Splunk Cloud, Splunk Light and SPL are trademarks and registered trademarks of Splunk Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective owners. © 2019 Splunk Inc. All rights reserved.

Problem statements

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Backlog of compliance requirements
1
Many compliance requirements, and not enough time to build the checks

Too many security alert formats
2
Dozens of security tools with different
data formats

Too many security alerts
3
Large volume of alerts, and the need
to prioritize and take action

Lack of an integrated view
4
Lack of an integrated view of
security and compliance across
accounts

Security Hub overview

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Taking action with AWS Security Hub

Amazon GuardDuty Amazon Inspector Amazon Macie
Third-party providers

AWS Security Hub

Amazon CloudWatch Events

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Splunk Placeholder Slide
 Splunk to add integration slide

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.

Demo

© 2019 SPLUNK INC.
Thank You!

