Security Intelligence and Analytics Platform
Detect, Respond to & Neutralize Cyber Threats
Attacks can originate from both inside and outside your environment. To stop them from resulting in a data breach or other cyber incident, you need a unified view into all threats facing your organization.
Use LogRhythm to detect emerging threats and neutralize them quickly.

Next-Gen SIEM

Log Management

Network Monitoring & Forensics

Endpoint Monitoring & Forensics

Unified Security Intelligence & Analytics

User Behavior Analytics

Network Behavior Analytics

Endpoint Behavior Analytics

WWW.LOGRHYTHM.COM/DEMO

LOGRHYTHM SECURITY INTELLIGENCE AND ANALYTICS PLATFORM

INPUT
REAL-TIME DATA COLLECTION
Security Events

System Logs

Other Machine Data

REAL-TIME DATA GENERATION

Network Monitoring

...
DPI & Application ID

Layer 7 Flow

Deep Packet Analytics

Full Packet Capture

Flow Data
Application Logs
ANALY TICS
PROCESSING

Audit Logs

Endpoint Monitoring
File/Registry Integrity

Process Activity

Network Comms

User Activity

MACHINE ANALYTICS

FORENSIC ANALYTICS

Time

Metadata

Normalization Extraction & Tagging

60 30
90
100

Uniform Data Classification

Threat & Risk Contextualization

%6c%72

Behavioral Profiling

Machine Learning

Blacklisting

Unstructured Search

Visualization

Statistical Analysis

Advanced Correlation

Whitelisting

USER AND/OR
HOST
Contextual Search

Pivot & Drill-Down

MACHINE DATA INTELLIGENCE (MDI) FABRIC

OUTPUT
ACTIONABLE INTELLIGENCE

97 83 59
Risk-Prioritized Alarms

Real-Time Dashboards

Reports

INCIDENT RESPONSE
!

Case Collaboration

Evidence Locker

Incident

Tracking & Metrics

Automated Response

WWW.LOGRHYTHM.COM/DEMO

LOGRHYTHM SECURITY INTELLIGENCE AND ANALYTICS PLATFORM

TIME TO DETECT

FORENSIC DATA

DISCOVER

QUALIFY

TIME TO RESPOND

INVESTIGATE

NEUTRALIZE

RECOVER

Unify Your Security Intelligence

Accomplish Your Mission
Security is your mission. It's ours, too. Empower your valuable personnel with a platform built for security intelligence and analytics. Implement security and compliance use cases quickly and effectively. Focus your team on protecting your organization, rather than customizing a tool.
Centralize Your Visibility
Gather all of the forensic evidence generated by your IT environment--with or without agents. Eliminate data silos and get centralized visibility with LogRhythm.
Monitor Networks and Endpoints
Fill in your forensic data gaps with endpoint and network monitoring. Our network and endpoint sensors ensure that you have all of the forensic detail you need to detect and neutralize advanced threats.
Understand Your Data
Get the intelligence you need, without the noise. Our Machine Data Intelligence (MDI) Fabric automatically contextualizes over 750 different data sources. By extracting metadata and classifying security events, LogRhythm helps you use log and machine data to detect, respond to and neutralize advanced threats.

Know the True Time of Occurrence
Don't miss critical attack sequences. Our patented TrueTimeTM function records the actual time of occurrence, automatically correcting offsets tied to different time zones, device clocks and collection latencies.
Seamlessly Incorporate Threat Intelligence
Threats are dynamic, and attack vectors are constantly changing. Stay ahead by using the rich context enabled by threat intelligence from STIX/TAXII-compliant providers, commercial and open-source feeds, and internal honeypots. Use this data to reduce false-positives, detect hidden threats, and prioritize your most concerning alarms.
LogRhythm Labs Supports Your Team
LogRhythm Labs is a research and development team focused on security and compliance. The Labs team develops data processing rules for over 750 devices and applications, security analytics modules to protect your full attack surface, and compliance automation modules for 15 frameworks. The Labs team is comprised of includes recognized experts in intrusion detection, incident response, malware analysis, compliance, and other critical domains.

LogRhythm's security analytics completely changed our visibility and monitoring capabilities to laser focus our time on the alarms that matter the most."
Source: Security Officer, Large Enterprise Retail Company
WWW.LOGRHYTHM.COM/DEMO

LOGRHYTHM SECURITY INTELLIGENCE AND ANALYTICS PLATFORM

Modernize Your Threat Detection and Response

Uncover the Most Critical Threats
With machine learning and other automated data analysis techniques, LogRhythm's real-time security analytics help you detect advanced threats. Event corroboration and datadriven threat contextualization calculate a granular risk score for each alarm so your team can focus on the most concerning issues.

Search with Power and Precision
Get the answers you need, fast. Whether you're hunting for threats or investigating an incident, our search technology's Elasticsearch backend helps you work efficiently. Only LogRhythm empowers you to search with both unstructured and contextualized criteria, streamlining search creation and result analysis.

Stop Insider Threats and Account Takeover
You can only shut down compromised accounts if you can see them. Our User Behavior Analytics (UBA) illuminate insider threats and stolen credentials so you can catch imposters, identify privilege abuse and stop user-based threats. LogRhythm Labs regularly develops new UBA content, including behavioral profiling, peer group analytics, statistical analytics and advanced correlation to help you stay ahead of new threats.
Detect Network and Endpoint Anomalies
See what's happening on your endpoints and network to detect compromises like spear phishing and zero-day exploits. LogRhythm's Endpoint and Network Threat Detection Modules are continually updated to ensure you stay one step ahead of cyber adversaries.

Orchestrate and Automate Incident Response
Neutralize threats quickly using the collaborative workflows enabled by our embedded case management function, and automate incident investigation and remediation with pre-staged SmartResponseTM automation actions. Track detection and response times so you can optimize processes over time.
Streamline Compliance
LogRhythm provides pre-configured compliance automation modules for several regulatory frameworks, including FISMA, GPG 13, HIPAA, ISO 27001, NERC CIP, PCI DSS, SOX, DoDi 8500.2, NEI 08-09, NIST Cybersecurity Framework, NIST 800-53 and NRC RG 5.71.

See LogRhythm in Action
We can help you to detect, respond to and neutralize cyber threats before they can damage your business. To see how, watch our online demo at www.logrhythm.com/demo.

WWW.LOGRHYTHM.COM/DEMO
©2016 LogRhythm Inc. | LogRhythm_Security_Intelligence_And_Analytics_Platform_JUL16

